By Joan Nwagwu The Nigeria Labour Congress(NLC) on Wednesday canvassed for a universal protection cover that would address the challenges of COVID-19 and any other future occurrence that require such an intervention. The NLC President, Mr Ayuba Wabba, said this while speaking with newsmen on the sideline of the ongoing 110tg session of the International Labour Conference (ILC) in Geneva, Switzerland. “We are working assiduously on the issue of Universal social protection; one of the issues that have come up very clearly with the COVID-19 is the fact that we Nigerians do not have any means of social protection. “Unlike other climes like here in this country (Switzerland), everybody in this country benefits from social protection whether you are in small and mid scale enterprise, or unemployed. “They have a data base and they use the data base to transfer money directly into the accounts of everybody. “The fact that you pay tax, a fraction of that tax is actually paid to you as a social security cover to actually address the issue of COVID-19,’’ he said. He also noted that when the COVID-19 started, there was threat of mass sack, in which the NLC reached an agreement with employers of Labour. He added that: we were the first among unions and employers in Africa, to actually have an accord so that we must protect jobs, and we must also protect sustainability in the production lines. “That agreement was signed to say that we would not support any company or any establishment that would just use the COVID-19 excuse to sack workers, just like we had with Access Bank that want to actually sack workers enmasse,’’ he said. Wabba said that the agreement was still subsisting and that labour had kept watch to ensure that the agreement would be respected by all employers. “I can say that Nigerian employers and the organised Labour are on the same page, as the challenge of COVID-19, should not be used to sack workers in mass,” he said. On the issue of occupational safety, Wabba said many workers were affected as there are no provisions for them to receive social protection cover. “This time around, Labour centres around the world including the working class have put on the table to make Occupational Health and Safety fundamental human right. “I am happy to tell you that it is the first Instrument that this 110th session have already passed and it’s going to be adopted in the plenary. “Part of the instrument to drive that particular decision is Convention 155 and Convention 187 of the ILO which are fundamental Conventions of the Occupational Health and Safety,’’ he said. “I think with that we would be able to go back home to domesticate these two conventions”. He noted that ILO conventions are meant for domestication, so that Nigeria workers can also benefit from the inputs of these very important conventions. “I am happy to tell you that the UN Secretary General is supportive of these moves,‘’ he said. He called on the Federal Government to key into the domestication of the two conventions, while adding that Labour would ensure that Nigeria was not left behind. “We must use empirical data to be able to address the issue of insecurity, issues of unemployment, issues of under employment, and issues of people losing their job,’’ he said.(NAN) Edited by Ismail AbdulAziz