By Angela Atabo Yoruba Council Worldwide and Nigerian Youth Coalition on Monday appealed to agitators and separationists across Nigeria to sheath their swords in the interest of peace and unity. Mr Aare Hassan, Global President, Yoruba Council Worldwide and Nigerian Youth Coalition made the call at a news conference on the state of the nation in Abuja. Hassan said the group  expressed its concern on the grave dangers in view of the growing daily heightened tensions of insecurity across the country. “This is coupled with the unguarded hate speech campaign predicated on ethnic coloration trends ahead of the forthcoming 2023 Presidential elections. “We encourage mutual respect, peace and harmonious relationship predicated on the principle of reciprocity.   “We therefore appeal to all Nigerians from the 36 states , particularly our home calling appeal goes to all “Oodua Nation Agitators” to  rethink 2023 general elections and encourage more people to get their PVC.’’ Hassan said that the group commended all political parties for a job well done at the just concluded party primaries and congratulated all the winners. According to him, there are no times for any ethnic and political opportunists to take advantage of Nigeria’s  precarious situation. He said that having critically considered all the Presidential Candidates and their political parties beyond ethnic or primordial sentiments, the group settled to endorse Bola Tinubu as its presidential candidate. “Tinubu being a thorough breed experienced  Nationalist and Presidential Candidate of the APC, is endorsed as our next President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria come 2023. “This is  based on his uncommon  intellectual acumen and eagle eyes to pick the best cabinet ministers and parastatal heads from all geopolitical sections of the country. “He will do this without any iota of political, ethnic, religious vengeance and biased sentiments to progressively serve and drive the nation forward.’’ Hassan said Nigerians urgently needed a detrabalised  Presidential candidate like Tinubu to urgently address restructuring of the Constitution and succinct governance system, in compliance with the circumstances and modernity. He said Tinubu would put  up positively driven aggressive master plan on job creation and mass employment opportunities for all the teaming youths. He added that Tinubu would carry out agricultural revolution, guarantee education rights  with adequate multi funding system, establish best health care delivery systems, ICT and positively reinforce and reinvigorate on Nigeria’s foreign policy and  partnership base. Hassan said that the candidate would fight insecurity, insurgency and other wanton crimes to a standstill, and  provide uncommon economic sustainable growth and national stability. He therefore, called on Nigerians, especially the Obas, stakeholders, elders, women and youths to rally support and vote massively for Tinubu as the next president. He also implored all political parties to as a matter of necessity, balance religious and ethnicity-related issues, to protect and sustain the tenets, sanctity and values of democracy in Nigeria. He called on all the presidential candidates to unite and put Nigeria first in the course of their political engagements across the country. “Unity, security and national development are key drivers towards attaining the Nigeria of our dream. “The 2023 election should not be made a do-or-die affair, hence the need for all presidential candidates, political parties, other candidates and citizens not to overheat the polity with hate speech.’’ Hassan urged them to extol the virtues of peace and sportsmanship qualities before, during and after the general elections. He also called on Nigerians to get registered, collect their voter cards and ensure to vote wisely. Also speaking , Mr Ismail Apese, a member of the group, appealed  to the Yoruba, Igbos and other groups to stay calm. “I call on my Yourba brothers, IPOB, other  agitators and everyone who believed in one Nigeria to stay calm for the betterment of the country,’’ he said.(NAN)(nannews.ng) Edited by Idris Abdulrahman