By Ifeanyi Olannye Delta Commissioner for Information, Charles Aniagwu says the Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa-led government will present its scorecards during the 2023 general elections campaign. Aniagwu stated this at a press conference on Monday in Asaba while responding to certain allegations ascribed to the Deputy Senate President, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege, that the state government could not account for over N700 billion in the past seven years. He noted that facts were sacred, adding that the money quoted by the senator was not up to the state civil servants wage bills for the period. He urged people to shun campaign of calumny while directing candidates of political parties to speak on issues that would better the life of the people instead of painting pictures that were at variance with reality. He said that Okowa has discharged his duty creditably to advance development of the state with the accruing resources over the period. “I speak to you today to set the records straight. Not too long ago, I advised the Deputy Senate President to try as much as possible to trade with issues that will help his electioneering campaign and not to stray in directions that will not advance the cause of his interest. “I read somewhere, where he said that in the past seven years we have received over N700 billion and that we could not account for that and I began to wonder, our wage bill alone is even far more than that. “As a government, we have been able to show transparently through the media and other programmes through which we have empowered our youths and women across the state. According to Aniagwu, Okowa’s administration over the years have impacted the people through road networks, bridges, storm water drainages, the ultramodern secretariat, Stephen Keshi Stadium, others and the riverine communities were not left out. “On Tuesday, the state government will be calibrating the Instrument Landing System (ILS) using the drone at the Asaba International Airport “The talk about N700 billion leaves one wondering because there has never been any year that we have budgeted less than N350 billion. “So, as we go into the electioneering campaign, we are going to put across to our people what our party, the Peoples Democratic Party, has done in Delta,” he said. He said that on national profile of Gov. Okowa, “only God can stop Okowa not man, with his performance, he will impact the national development”. “We have seen a number of persons who are trying to bring down the rising profile of our governor, adding that God and the people of the state have affirmed that Gov. Okowa has performed creditably. On Okowa’s relationship with former state governor, Chief James Ibori, the commissioner said that they remained best of friends, adding that Ibori’s leadership has never been questioned. “We believe that Ibori will continue to support any move that will lift Okowa or Delta forward. On the PDP governorship and presidential primaries, Aniagwu described the process as free, fair and credible. According to him, the delegates spoke and their choice for the party is democratic. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Ifeyinwa Okonkwo/Vincent Obi