Bridget Ikyado The Primate of All Nigeria Anglican Communion, Most Rev. Henry Ndukuba, has called for collective efforts to tackle the spate of killings in the country. Ndukuba, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on the state of the nation on Wednesday in Abuja, urged Christians and Muslims, as well as leaders to join hands to secure the country. “We believe that there must be rule of law even in the face of the most serious provocation whatever may be the nature. “We are thinking that our leaders and all those that are in-charge of communities and security must wake up to the realities that are starring at our faces,” he said. The Primate described the recent killing of worshippers in Owo as sad, saying government should track and bring the perpetrators to book. “None of our people both Christians and Muslims would want to be attacked while they are worshipping God, no matter the reason. “It is a heinous crime; it is a violation of both natural, spiritual and every religious law. There is no reason for this,” he added. Ndukuba said that government and security agencies should also track those “boldly and freely” using social media platforms to threaten individuals, communities and tribes. “ We are demanding that our leaders must rise up to the occasion to secure the lives and property of the citizens of Nigeria. “Nobody has right to be killed in the place of worship whether Christian or Muslim. “ We want to express our unhappiness at what has happened and we call on the Federal Government to do the needful. “These people are not spirits, they are human beings and they must be fished out and justice must take its course,” he said. He appreciated President Muhammadu Buhari for directing the National Emergency Management Agency NEMA to provide solace to families of those attacked in Owo. “While we commend that, we want to say that nothing will assuage the sorrow and the pain of these people and families than justice. “Let justice be done, let these people who are culpable be brought to book and I know that our security agencies are equal to the task,” he said. Ndukuba enjoined Christians not to relent in praying for peace and stability of the country. “We want to encourage every believer in Christ to stand strong in faith let us continue to pray and wait upon the Lord, He will turn the captivity of Nigeria and bring consolation in a time like this,” he said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)   ========= Edited by Maharazu Ahmed/Isaac Aregbesola