By Priscilla Osaje The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has reiterated government’s commitment on socio- economic potentials inherent in creative arts and cultural tourism of Nigeria for foreign direct investment. Mohammed, in a statement by Ahmed Sule, Director, Media & Public Relations in Abuja, made the remark during a business development visit by Nura Kangiwa, Director General, National Institute for Hospitality and Tourism (NIHOTOUR). The visit was made alongside a delegation of 14 eminent persons including the County officials, business men and women from Miami Dade County, Florida USA. The minister said Miami Dade County and Nigeria had common potentials in creative arts and culture, as such, could be explored for the benefits of Nigeria and the United States. “Nigeria is blessed with a vast social cultural, creative arts and tourism potentials investment. “The collaborations and partnerships with prospective investors from Miami Dade County will open a wide range of opportunities for the promotion, growth and development of the travel-tourism and hospitality industries of both countries,” he said. Mohammed urged the delegation to use the opportunity of their visit to explore the beautiful flora and fauna terrain that Nigeria possessed and savour the sumptuous delicacies of Nigerian foods. He added that they should also savour cuisines as well as interact with the hospitable people of Nigeria for the benefits of a memorable and fruitful visit of the country. Earlier, leader of the delegation, Jean Monestime said they were in Nigeria to explore the possibilities of investment partnerships in several key sectors of the economy. Monestime, who happens to be Commissioner for District 2, Miami Dade County, said the sectors include aviation, tourism, ports and maritime industries for the economic good of Nigeria and Miami Dade Florida, USA. He noted that Miami Florida had a lot in common with Africa especially Nigeria, in the areas of social cultural relations, creative arts and the entertainment industry. He added that partnering with Nigeria could explore and harness the potentials that would boost the economic and social cultural relationship that had long existed between Nigeria and the United States of America. “The partnership will pave the way for harnessing those hidden potentials of both countries that have been left unexplored and untapped. “Our visit to the country is an eye opener of the vast socio-economic potentials that Nigeria is endowed with. “The investment opportunities as well as the conducive environment for foreign direct investment are positive signs of great importance, as we make the needed decision of investing in Nigeria when we return home,” Monestime said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by JaneFrances Oraka/Idris Abdulrahman