By Jacinta Nwachukwu The National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI) on Thursday inaugurated a library at Waru IDPs camp to encourage learning and reading culture among persons of concern. The Federal Commissioner, NCFRMI, Ms Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim during the launch in Abuja said that the aim of the initiative was to complement the efforts of the Universal Basic Education. Sulaiman-Ibrahim said that the commission had built six functional vocational training centres and eight schools in some resettlement cities. “We are also planning with state governments to build resilience among persons of concern to have copying mechanisms,” she said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme of the launch is “Project Educate All, Readers are Leaders”. According to her, ‘Project Educate All’ is developed for the purpose of educating persons of concern, particularly displaced children in IDPs camps. In his remarks, the Chairman, House Committee on IDPs, Rep. Muhammad Umar commended the commission for the initiative, saying that IDPs faced numerous barriers to education, especially girls and women. Umar said that the roles and functions of the library “cannot be quantified as it is the centre of academic activities where pupils, students can expose themselves academically. “library is the epicentre of reading and writing, room for knowledge, point of reference, documentation, research, social awareness and libral activities.” He further said that IDPs faced numerous barriers to education, especially girls and women. “Many of the barriers are similar to those faced by other conflict and crisis affected by populations but IDPs are more vulnerable due to the loss of livelihood, home and possessions”. He, therefore, assured the committee’s readiness to always provide legislative supports to any matter relating to IDPs and refugees while calling on the users of the library to use it judiciously. Similarly, the representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), Mr Ghansa Kapaya said “about 10.5 million children in Nigeria between the ages of five and 14 are not in school.” Kapaya, who was represented by Mr Gilbert Mutai of UNHCR, said that “piloting this initiative in IDPs camps by the commission is a well come development”. Sen. Frank Ibezim, Co-Founders “I am the future of Nigeria” said that no nation without organised and proper education would be a great nation. Ibezim said this explained why the government agency had taken up the initiative to establish classroom library to aid learning in IDPs camps. Mr Agasa Reuben, the Assistant Head Master Waru Local Education Authority (LEA), Federal Capital Territory, while appreciating the commission for the gesture appealed for more supports in the areas of teachers and infrastructure. Reuben said that the school has over 900 pupils with only about 14 teachers including the management. NAN reports that the programme was organised by the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons in collaboration with “I am the future of Nigeria” an NGO..(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========= Edited by Grace Yussuf