By Georgina Adegbie Moses Balogun, the Chief Referee, Handball Federation of Nigeria (HFN), has applauded the invitation of four foreign referees to officiate in the ongoing Prudent Energy Handball Premier League. Bolagun who commended Samuel Ochehu, the HFN President for the invitation, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the foreign referees would add value to the league and project it internationally. According to Balogun who is also a member of the Play Role Commission, the referees include two males from Morocco, El Mouniri Achraf and Chouraki Mohamed and two females from Gabon – Aisha Odou and Olga Namadjia. He also said that the President of Play Rules Commission in Africa, Diabate Mamoudou from Côte D’ivoire would be coming with the four referees from Morocco and Gabon. Balogun further said that Mamoudou and the four referees would assist in training other referees in the league. “We thank the African Handball Confederation (CAHB) for granting the request of the president to have foreign technical officials join us in our league. “Our league has come to the standard that we can have foreign referees join us in officiating; this is not the first time we are doing this. “Having referees from Morocco and Gabon is just to add value to our league like every other league in Africa,” he said. Commenting on the new rules of the game, Bolagun said that CAHB and the International Handball Federation (IHF) were making serious efforts to amend them in June. “The rules have not changed; we have been using the same rules for the past four years. “For now the rule, the clarification, the standard is the same, the Congress of IHF will bring about the new rules of the game,” he said. Balogun said the federation was currently training junior referees from 16 years, numbering about 48, to prepare them for the task of taking the league to the next level. “The training started on May 23 and it was a joint seminar where we analysed matches together; we analysed and worked on video clips the president brought. “The essence of the training is to bring them (junior referees) to see the correct officiating at the senior level so that we can develop them to the level of CAHB and IHF,” he said. NAN reports that the first phase of the Prudent Energy Premier Handball League which started on May 23 is expected to end on June 2. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ======== Edited by Emmanuel Afonne/Idris Abdulrahman