By Diana Omueza Mr Ibrahim Malik-Addo of Young Progressives Party (YPP) has clinched the party’s presidential ticket for the 2023 general elections. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Malik-Addo won the election with a total of 66 votes to defeat his only opponent, Mrs Ruby Chinenye, who polled four votes. Chairman of the party’s Presidential Primary Electoral Committee, Mr Vidiyeno Bamaiyi, declared Malik-Addo as YPP’s presidential flag bearer at the party’s third national convention, held on Wednesday in Abuja. Bamaiyi congratulated the presidential candidate and advised him to uphold his mandate to the party and Nigerians, if he eventually emerged as president in 2023. “We had three aspirants aspiring to fly our party’s flag but along the line, one of them stepped down for reasons best known to him. “As a party, we must carry on with our activities, and today, we have just witnessed the presidential debate for the two aspirants, followed by the primary. “A total of 70 delegates were accredited to vote. While Mrs Ruby Chinenye polled four votes, Prince Malik-Addo pulled 66. “By the power vested on me as the chairman of the presidential primary electoral committee, I hereby declare Prince Ibrahim Malik-Addo as the winner and the presidential candidate of YPP,” he said. Responding, Malik-Addo appreciated the party delegates for voting for him and congratulated his opponent for a brilliant debate. He said that he was ready to work with her as a part of his team to contest against other parties in the 2023 general elections. “I’m overwhelmed by the confidence and trust shown by the delegates in voting for me and I promise to work with the YPP family at all levels to emerge victorious, not only at the party level but at the general polls, come 2023. “I congratulate Mrs Chinenye for a brilliant debate, and I am ready to work with her as a part of my team, because she has the wealth of knowledge and she has shown that she is a value to any structure. “I will uphold my mandates and live up to our great party’s expectations as a young. This is the beginning of a new dawn,” he said. Malik-Addo also commended the national convention planning committee for a successful exercise. Chinenye also congratulated the party’s presidential flag bearer and wished him well in his quest to achieve his dreams and fulfil the party’s goals. YPP’s National Chairman, Mr Bishop Amakiri, also congratulated the presidential candidate for winning the party’s presidential ticket. He said that his emergence as the party flag bearer was a step in the right direction, adding that the conduct of the party’s presidential primary should be an example to other political parties. Amakiri advised the presidential candidate to run an open strategy and adhere to all the party’s rules and the guidelines set by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He promised to give the party’s flag bearer all the necessary assistance to ensure that he emerged victorious, come 2023. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event was witnessed by some INEC officials, security agents and party faithful. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) =============== Editted by AbdulFatai Beki and ‘Wale Sadeeq