By Usman Aliyu Mr Farouk Salim, the Director-General, Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), has canvassed for the strengthening of pharmaceutical sector in the country through development of standards that deal with the peculiar problems. Salim made this call on Thursday while delivering the maiden Public Lecture of the Dora Akunyili College of Pharmacy, Igbinedion University, Okada, Edo. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the lecture was themed: “The Impact of Standards on the Practice of Pharmacy Profession”. The SON boss said the call became necessary as standards in pharmaceutical sector is crucial given its role in the care of the sick. “It is the existence of standards that assures the safety of lives and properties as they establish boundaries and advocate responsibilities. “In addition, the pharmacy practice in its entirety both in the clinical and industrial practice has tolerance for error as derived from standards,” he said. Salim, who is also a pharmacist, regretted that only three per cent of the drugs in the Nigerian market are produced locally. “In spite of the great potential for the pharmaceutical industry in Africa with increasing urbanisation, healthcare capacity and supportive business environment as the major drivers of the Africa pharmaceutical market, 95 per cent of all medicines produced in Africa are imported with only three per cent being produced locally,” he said. Salim noted, however, that SON given its statutory function as the facilitator and enabler of standards and Secretariat of the Standards Council of Nigeria, was critical for the survival of the country’s industrial sector. In his opening remark, Prof. Lawrence Ezemonye, Vice-Chancellor of the university, said the event signposted the commitment of the institution to scholastic engagements and community services aimed at strengthening its relationship with society. Ezemonye said the management of the university recently awarded a grant of N2.5 million for the College of Pharmacy for research and drugs development. The vice-chancellor announced that the college’s Cancer and Reproductive Research Group is currently working on development of therapeutics useful in easing labour, reducing postpartum haemorrhage and reduction in mother/child mortality/morbidity. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Editted by AbdulFatai Beki/Muhammad Suleiman Tola