By Ibironke Ariyo The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, has charged the newly decorated Deputy Corps Marshals (DCMs) on dedication to service. Oyeyemi gave the charge during the decoration ceremony of the senior officers on Thursday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that two Assistant Corps Marshals (ACMs) Mr Efosa Osawe and Mrs Susan Ajenge, were promoted to the rank of DCMs respectively. NAN also reports that they were decorated as a reward for resilience and commitment to duty. Oyeyemi said elevation comes with higher responsibilities, adding that the newly appointed DCMs needed to be more delight, committed and accountable in the discharged of their duties. According to Oyeyemi, the road to success is quite tough. He added that the capacity of the human assets of any organisation, particularly at strategic management level was fundamental to the attainment of the goals and mandate of such institution. “This is why no organisation can advance beyond the competence and dedication of its strategic leaders. “Let me charge you to rededicate yourselves to the service of Nigeria as you prepare for higher responsibilities. “In the race to add value to the society and secure our roads, there should be no finishing line. “You must, therefore, redouble your efforts to justify serving the nation in a greater dimension,” he said. Oyeyemi reiterated that promotion of senior officers was premised on their excellent performance and the resolve of the Corps to constantly reward excellence. He said, “as part of the front-line officers, you are also admonished not to forget one of the Corps’ unfinished projects, which is mentorship. “With your new status, more responsibility for mentorship awaits you as individuals.” The FRSC board Chairman, Mallam Bukhari Bello, assured that the process of promotion was transparent. Bello said the exercise was conducted under the highest standard of integrity and strict adherence to regimental ethics in line with global best practices in the selection process. He charged them to be prepared for higher responsibilities and more challenging tasks in the Corps. “You must also try as much as possible to mentor other subordinates for continuity in the offices,” he said. Bello commended the Corps for their commitment to efficient traffic management as demonstrated during the last Easter Special Patrols and the recent Eid-El-Fitri Sallah special operations. He enjoined all to sustain total enforcement to whatever assignments they were given saying that individual commitment to organisational vision was paramount. “I once again urge all the newly decorated senior officers to rededicate themselves to the challenges of their new ranks. “And they all should fully support the Federal Government to accomplish its change agenda which involves character reorientation and personal sacrifice,” he said. One of the newly appointed DCMs, Osawe, on behalf of the decorated officers, expressed appreciation to the Corps Marshal and the board chairman for the privilege and honour to be decorated to the new rank. Osawe assured the Corps of total submission to duty, hard work and commitment to service for efficient and effective performance in carrying out the mandates of the agency. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Mmaduakolam Gregg/Salif Atojoko