L-R: Hannes Scheiner, Commercial Attaché, Austrian Embassy, Katharina Felgenhauer, AHK Nigeria Delegate, Marton Köver, Acting Consul General of Germany, Andrew Aryee, Head, Competence Centre Energy and Environment, AHK Nigeria By Busayo Onijala For the German government, addressing climate change and doing everything possible to mitigate its consequences are a top priority, says Marton Köver, Acting Consul General of the country’s mission in Lagos. Köver stated this at a press conference, on Thursday in Lagos, organised by the Delegation of German Industry and Commerce in Nigeria (AHK Nigeria) ahead of the West African Clean Energy and Environment Trade Fair and Conference 2022 (WACEE’22). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that WACEE 2022 will hold from Oct. 19 – 21 at the Landmark Event Centre in Lagos. Having held virtually in 2020 because of the coronavirus pandemic, this year, WACEE will hold as a hybrid event with the theme “Catalysing Sustainable Investments.” Köver said the conference would provide a platform for over 1500 visitors and over 50 exhibitors in the clean energy, water, and circular economy sectors. According to him, having an event that brings together “saving the planet,” strengthening the economy and creating economic ties is like “having the best of both worlds.” He added that the consulate in Lagos and the German Foreign Service across West Africa would support WACEE 2022 in all ramifications. “For all Nigerian businesses and everyone who is a stakeholder in these different sectors; circular economy, water and renewable energy, this will be a key event you will be proud to be a part of. “Nigeria has been for many decades, one of the economic partners of Germany in Africa, as witnessed by the number of German businesses and historic ties. “We are also happy that in partnership with the Swiss Consulate General, we are hosting the second Swiss-Nigerian Forum at WACEE 2022,” he said. He said Germany was one of the world leaders in developing industries with regards to renewable energy, noting that German companies in Nigeria came to build sustainable partnerships and to innovate. Also, Katharina Felgenhauer, AHK Nigeria Delegate, said the trade fair and conference had attracted leading inventors, service providers, manufacturers, suppliers and distributors, investors and industry experts. She added that it had served as a gateway for these stakeholders to access West African markets. “WACEE has also sparked important policy discussions around its three main topics and has served as a launchpad for startups providing innovative solutions to tackle challenges across the subregion,” said Felgenhauer. She said AHK Nigeria had sought endorsements from various government agencies but also wanted to make sure that the trade exhibition, as well as the conference remained private sector driven. This, she said, was because sustainability also meant business viability. “We want to make sure that the conversations and discussions about technology and business models are driven by the private sector because they are the ones who will have to implement,” the delegate said. Speaking on solutions to challenges faced by investors, Felgenhauer said the role of AHK Nigeria was to support investments to make sure that more German companies were attracted to Nigeria. “We will not shy away from challenges. I think we have issues to tackle but we also have a lot of good local partners, German partners and international partners to have these conversations,” she said. Andrew Aryee, Head, Competence Centre Energy and Environment, AHK Nigeria, explained that the trade fair would include open interactive sessions, insightful workshops, tailor-made training programmes, and an exhibition. According to him, the three-day tailored plenary programme will bring together industry experts, business leaders, and relevant decision-makers. He said they would examine key sector topics and engage in thought-provoking conversations around recent developments, challenges and opportunities in the focused sectors across West Africa. These sectors, he said, included technology providers, key industry players, investors, industry experts as well as political and economic decision-makers. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Salif Atojoko