By Oluwatope Lawanson An e-commerce company, Boom on Thursday,  launched an online trading platform for over 1.7 billion unbanked customers. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the e-commerce platform was launched at the Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. The Chief Executive Officer, Mr Peter Adekeye of Boom at the launch, said that the e-commerce platform was a market place created to allow anyone to buy and sell desired products online without necessary bank account. He said that intending users of the Boom would have the opportunity to download the Boom App on Google Playstore, IOS and other online platforms. “According to the World Bank, I.7 billion people have no bank account who are referred to as unbanked. “These people are denied the opportunity to trade or showcase their products to the global space, these are the people targeted for opportunity. “These set of people have never shopped onlined and neither have they ever been able to offer their goods and services for sale on the internet. “Our customers who have no bank account especially those traders at the hinterland can exchange their liquid cash with our multi-currency,” he said. Adekeye said that Boom App would be available for download from July 4, and would be available in three Nigerian languages and other foreign languages. “The Boom App will be available from July 4 and will have interface in three major Nigerian languages, Yoruba, Hausa and Igbo, it is also available in Spanish and French. “All transactions on Boom has no hidden charges, we have no access fee or any form of payment or commission, both parties have a chance to get their 100 per cent earnings. “The platform is also safe for all users as Boom does not keep data of  users, we do not accept ads on Boom. “Boom enables customers to shop online,  not necessarily having a bank account, they can only top up the Boom wallet buying from Aboki who will exchange to multicoin who can resell,” he said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Chioma Ugboma