By Justina Auta National Council for Women Societies (NCWS), on Thursday, appealed to the Federal Government and other stakeholders to address issues affecting security and education in the country. National President of NCWS, Hajiya Lami Adamu-Lau, made the appeal at a news briefing, in commemoration of International Day of the African Child and the forthcoming 2022 Women-In-National Service Week (WINSERVE’ 2022) in Abuja. Adamu-Lau said that the Day called for sober reflection and for all critical stakeholders to proffer solutions to issues affecting insecurity and the rights of the Nigerian child. She decried the increasing cases of Sexual and Gender Based Violence (SGBV) affecting women and children, adding that the domestication of Child Rights Act, 2003 would reduce the menace. “We are equally witnesses to widespread cases of rape and other forms of violence against innocent women, mostly minors. “We must begin to accord maximum priorities to fighting the twin monsters of gender-based violence and shameless neglect of our children’s rights,” she said. Adamu-Lau called on all state governors to speed-up the process of adopting the Child Rights Act so as to take ‘cognitive and collective’ action on the matter. “We are also calling on the federal government and ASSU to please re-open our universities so that our children will be fully engaged. “Incessant crises in our educational institutions may constitute big threats to national security. “Children’s continuous stay at home is very worrisome to us as mothers, as it makes them idle, redundant and, therefore, vulnerable to all forms of violence and negative tendencies,” she said. Also speaking, Ms Edhekpo Uyoyou, a politician and member of Special Events Planning Committee (SEPCOM) for ‘WINSERVE 2022’, stressed the need for protecting the rights of children to enable them to attain their potentials. Uyoyou said that the forthcoming WINSERVE’ 2022 would provide a platform for all critical stakeholders from the government, civil society organisation and others to discuss issues affecting women and children. “These events are very dear to all women and gender-friendly interest groups as well as civil society organisations (CSOs). “Indeed, that was why the Federal Government, under the auspices of FGN-NIMEC projects office, took the bold initiative to partner with NCWS for the successful hosting of these twin events,” she said. On his part, Dr M.A. Yakassai, Director, Federal Ministry of Finance and FGN-NIMEC Projects Implementation Committee, said that WINSERVE’ 2022 aimed to immortalise and highlight some laudable achievements made by notable Nigerian women. “WINSERVE 2022 seeks to address the perils of the society, especially gender-based violence (GBV) and encourage women political aspirants to participate during elections,” he said. Yakassai said that the one-week events would also showcase children’s unity concert and talents expo as well as discussions on gender equity and leadership. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)