By Angela Atabo Two Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), Flexisaf Foundation and Ilmi Children’s Fund (ICF) have called on decision makers to implement policies on access to quality education for children. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the NGOs organised a marathon tagged “Education Marathon 1.0 “in Abuja to advocate access to quality education for children. NAN also reports that the marathon was organised with the view of also demanding for an improvement in the welfare of teachers in both primary and secondary schools. The Executive Director of Flexisaf Foundation, Amina Abubakar described the event, like many others before it, as a step in the right direction. According to Abubakar, the foundation’s mission is to see that every child gets an unhindered access to quality education. “It is also to conscientise policy makers to implement the various regulations and white papers, that prioritises access to basic information and improved teachers’ welfare. “The event is a major landmark in both organisation’ s continued quest, to ensure that the rate of out of school children in Nigeria drops to the minimum. “It is also conceived to primarily breed socially responsible youngsters, through healthy networks as children, participating from both public and private schools, take part in an array of games. “The games are football ,water bucket race ,egg race, relay race, sack race and tug of war,” she said. Also speaking, Mrs Mariam Augie-Abdulmumin, Executive Director of Ilmi Children’s Fund (ICF) said that the education marathon 1.0, became imperative because ICF was in support of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Abdulmumin said that the aim of the programme was to see how the gap between the public and private schools could be breached, to give them equal opportunities. “ICF in its customary manner, will not relent in supporting the SDGs, as it relates to banishing illiteracy and ensuring that vulnerable children in our country get access to education. “This event is one of many to come because citizens must rise to ensure that we breed socially responsible adults and talented children in our clime,” she stated. Mrs Maryam Uwais, Special Advisor to President Muhammadu Buhari on Social Investments, commended the foundations for the initiative. Uwais said that it was a good development to use sports to bond the children, while also building their skills. “Sports is a good way of building skills and values in children and I am glad this is happening today,” she said. Also speaking Ms Ula Mula, Resident Representative, United Nations Population Fund (UNPF), said the event was all about a child’s right to education. Mula said that children’s access to education was an issue that the United Nations in Nigeria, paid keen attention to. She added that the UNPF was working hard to improve the implementation of the Child Rights Act, as well as improve access to child education in Nigeria. NAN reports that the highlights of the event was the presentation of medals to the winners of the games. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ============== Edited by Chinyere Nwachukwu/Isaac Aregbesola