By Olasunkanmi Onifade The Nigerian Computer Society (NCS) on Tuesday called on stakeholders to strengthen their commitment towards promoting cyber security in the country. The President of NCS, Prof. Adesina Sodiya made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) ahead of a cyber-security forum scheduled for June 8 to  June 10, in Abuja. He said that the current local and international reports indicated that cyber-attacks in the country were still on the increase, adding that many attack incidences in Nigeria were not reported. “Today, individuals, governments and corporate organisations are losing huge sums of money and property as a result of cyber-attacks. “Threat to landscape continues to change rapidly, and attacks are increasing in might and sophistication. It is also believed that this trend will continue in the nearest future,” he said. Sodita said that the trends of cyber-attacks had also taken another dimension since the current pandemic of COVID-19. “This has forced many individuals, governments and corporate organisations to move most of their operations and activities online. “We have also seen recent reported attacks on the public who face cyber security issues in Nigeria. Consequently, concerted effort is needed to enhance Cyber Security in Nigeria. “NCS is the umbrella body for all IT practitioners and interest groups with a core mandate of supporting government towards the realisation of a safe and secured deployment and use of IT resources. “NCS intends to make this stakeholders’ meeting a pungent platform for analysing the situation critically and provide reliable solutions to the Nation’s Cyber Security challenges, ” Sodiya said. He, however, said that experts from various aspects of the economy would be invited to lead discussions at the meeting. Sodiya said the association remained committed to IT development and had scheduled many programmes geared towards addressing the factors mitigating against efficient use of IT for leapfrogging development. NAN reports that NCS is also the national platform for the advancement of Information Technology Science and Practice in Nigeria. (NAN) Edited by Nick Nicholas/Grace Yussuf