By Abiemwense Moru Prof. Chimezie Anyakora, Chief Executive Officer, Bloom Public Health, has been bestowed with an award of excellence by the Arewa Youth Advocacy for Good Governance. The award was conferred on him during a courtesy visit by the leadership of the youth group on Tuesday at Bloom Public Health Headquarters in Abuja. Mr Ibrahim Adamu, Leader of the four-man delegation and the National Secretary of the group, said the award was in recognition of Anyakora’s contributions to youth development and service to humanity. Adamu added that the award was also in recognition of the Bloom Public Health chief executive’s concern toward the advancement of healthcare in Nigeria. He said the Arewa Youth Advocacy for Good Governance is a non-governmental and non-political organisation with members across the 19 Northern states and the FCT Abuja. He added that the group was formed to unite youths across the domain and to address some national issues, particularly as it relates to good governance and to prepare youths for leadership. In his response, Anyakora thanked the group for the honour, saying he was excited to see young, enterprising men and women working to move the nation forward in their various capacities. He said that Bloom Public Health had been working toward bridging the gap in public health in Nigeria and across Africa and creating a continent where access and quality of care were affordable. On Bloom Public Health’s impact on the continent, he explained that the company was born out of the need to create Africa-driven solutions to solve public health issues, especially in the pharmaceutical sector. He said the organisation had over the last two years provided reliable and sustainable services in the areas of supply chain management, quality pharmaceutical systems, laboratory and diagnostics policies for public health. He listed the achievements of the company in the first half of the year to include signing of MoU with Ebonyi Government and commencement of supply chain transformation project and establishment of a Drug Revolving Fund in Ebonyi. The establishment of the novel molecular diagnostics laboratory, DeltaPlus Diagnostics in Ogunu, Delta, born out of the partnership between Bloom Public Health, Katchey Laboratories, ND Western Limited, and the Independent Petroleum Producers Group (IPPG) was another major achievement for the company, he added. (NAN)(www.nanews.ng) ============== Edited by Hadiza Mohammed-Aliyu