By Naomi Sharang The Tinubu campaign group known as No Alternative To Tinubu 2023 (NATT 2023) has commended the peaceful conduct of the just concluded All Progressive Congress (APC) Presidential primary. National Co-ordinator of the group Mr Vincent Uba gave the commendation in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday. The group also lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for his display of wisdom, firmness and neutrality in the election. NATT 2023, which transformed from No Alternative To Buhari-Osinbajo (NATBO 2019), is a campaign group currently working for the actualisation of Sen. Bola Tinubu’s ambition of becoming Nigeria’s president in 2023. Uba said Buhari kept his cool throughout the period of the election in spite of intense pressure mounted on him earlier to influence the process by naming his preferred or anointed aspirant. “Known to be a man of integrity with a track record of not meddling with any election in the country since he assumed office as the president, he showed the stuff he is made of and refused to bow to the pressure,” he said. Uba also commended the president for allowing a level playing field for all the aspirants, unlike the previous leaders who would always impose their preferred candidates. “We are happy with the president and proud of him to have exhibited this singular act of wisdom that gave rise to an APC flag bearer known to command a large national following and grassroots support. “We congratulate the president, not only because APC had a successful, free and fair presidential primary election, but also because there is now relative peace, harmony and unity in the party. “The president whose none interference in the primary election made APC to elect a man, who soon after he was declared winner of the exercise, showed magnanimity in victory by visiting his opponents in their respective homes/offices. “That is what can best be described as a display of maturity, humility and capacity to unite and lead. Who can beat that! “We are grateful to Buhari to have considered the overall interest of the party and the nation at large and not impose any “anointed aspirant” on the delegates, even if it was the same Asiwaju Bola Tinubu,” Uba said. According to him, the presidential flag flagbearer has a track record of selecting round pegs for round holes over the years and will no doubt deploy same in choosing his team to govern the country from 2023, when elected. Uba noted that the thriving economy and friendly environment of Lagos was a testimonial of the said track record of Tinubu’s performance while serving as governor. He added: “Tinubu is a detribalised Nigerian, a lover of a united Nigeria, who as the governor of Lagos, selected his cabinet that cut across different ethnic and religious divide of the nation.”(NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ========== Edited by Isaac Aregbesola