By Dorathy Aninge AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF), on Thursday, inaugurated it’s first Committee on Age-Appropriate Sexuality Education in Markurdi, Benue. The programme Coordinator, Steve Aborishade, said at the inauguration which held at the Chief Palace of Angwan-Jukun Awe street, Makurdi, that the committee was set up due to lack of sexuality education in schools, homes and communities. Aborishade also said there was need to empower women on sexual education to reduce the risk of HIV/AIDS, and other Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs). He added that “new cases of HIV/AIDS are prevalent among younger generation because they contact this sexual diseases without even knowing they have it. “The younger generation do not know where or who to go and talk to when they find themselves in such situations; they rely on social media and peer groups for advice.” He, therefore, stressed the need for sex education and STDs, as well as steps to follow in such situations, hence the need for setting up the committee. The traditional ruler of Angwan-Jukun Community, Chief Tanko Omale, thanked AHF for bringing such an initiative to the community. He pleaded with the committee to carry out the assignment diligently, and promised to work with them anytime he was needed. Omale further said that the Jukun community had experienced many difficulties regarding the younger generation, adding that “the atrocities committed were very alarming. “I personally go out in the night to see what happens in the neighbourhood, and at times, what I see are very disturbing. “I believe this is God answering my prayers by bringing AHF to the rescue and I pray that in good time, there will be changes in the community.” Mr Obande Idikwu, a Director with the Ministry of Justice, and a member of the committee, said the ministry had always tried its best to make sure that cases involving child molestation and rape were settled in the court without partiality. According to him, there are times that cases hit brick wall because family decides not to testify or the victim involved decides not to narrate what happened. He promised that cases brought before the ministry would be given special attention and justice served. Obande, who represented the Ministry of Justice, thanked AHF for bringing up the idea of sexual education and promised that the ministry would be glad to handle cases of sexual molestation brought to it to seek justice. The News News Agency of Nigeria reports that, representatives from the Ministry of Women Affairs, Religious Organisation and members of the community were represented in the committee.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) Edited by Ayodeji Alabi/Hadiza Mohammed-Aliyu.