By Ikenna Osuoha Mr Victor Ogba, National Coordinator, Movement for Nigeria’s Transformation (MNT), on Sunday expressed optimism on the capacity of INEC to conduct free, fair and credible elections in 2023. Ogba said this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja, on the occasion of Nigeria’s Democracy Day celebrations. He said that the group was confident in the ability of the government of President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure acceptable general elections in 2023. “Members of the MNT strongly believe that Nigeria and indeed Nigerians can make the upcoming 2023 elections the most free and acceptable election ever in Nigeria. “As the conduct of the political party primaries have so far been on a relatively encouraging premise, the remaining part of the implementation of the electoral process should be taken seriously,” he said. Ogba who lauded political parties for conducting peaceful and credible primaries so far, said it was a demonstration of the country’s commitment to democratisation process. “It is remarkable that the conventions and primary elections conducted by the political parties are in keeping with the time table of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC),” he said. He explained that the peaceful conduct of the two major political parties in their primaries is indicative of the country’s preparedness for credible 2023 elections. Ogba, who described June 12 1993 general elections as the most credible in the  history of the country, urged political stakeholders to replicate same in 2023. “The political gladiators in the political parties should play by the rules of the INEC-steered electoral game. “The electorate on their part should be prepared to come out in their numbers to vote rightly and defend their votes. “INEC should do all it can to live above board by being an unbiased umpire sticking tenaciously to the enforcement of the electoral rules,” he said. Congratulating Nigerians on the auspicious Democracy Day celebration, Ogba said: “May the celebration of this 2022 edition of Democracy Day usher in for Nigerians  the dawn of a new era.”(NAN) www.nannews.ng