Royal Court Advisor to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Ahmadu bin Kattan(L) and President of the ECOWAS Commission, Jean-Claude Brou    By Lizzy Okoji The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has pledged to strengthen relations with Africa across all sectors, increase its volume of Investment in the continent by two per cent and support the region in tackling terrorism. Royal Court Advisor to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Ahmadu bin Kattan, gave the assurance at an official visit to the President of the ECOWAS Commission, Jean-Claude Brou in Abuja.  Kattan said that Saudi Arabia looked forward to achieving strategic partnerships with African countries that sought to achieve prosperity and sustainable development through a package of investment and economic projects in the medium and long term. He said that the meeting with ECOWAS also preceded the first Saudi-African Summit and the Fifth Arab-African Summit, which the Kingdom would hold later in the year. “As we look forward to raising the volume of Saudi investments in the African continent from  two per cent to higher levels that rise to the size of the African continent and its great investment potentials in many fields. “The Kingdom looks forward to investing in it through partnerships that achieve prosperity for both parties and development for our people. ‘We are meeting today before holding the first Saudi-African Summit and the Fifth Arab-African Summit, which the Kingdom will host this year 2022, with the aim of setting a future framework for joint development investment. ‘We are fully confident that these two summits will benefit the countries of the African continent and the Arab region, in which the Kingdom is keen on stability and security and peace. ‘The Saudi-African summit which will be held for the first time, aims at enhancing outcomes of (health, education, security, and investment development) in the African continent. “To achieve development and prosperity for its people through giant strategic projects that achieve the aspirations of the African people, away from bargaining, exploitation or looting of their national wealth,’’ Kattan said. Kattan pledged Kingdom’s support to the security, peace, and stability of the region’s countries, which always stood by solving problems and disputes by peaceful means such as dialogue. “The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is one of the countries that has suffered the most from terrorism. “The Kingdom has taken a firm and strong stance towards the phenomenon of terrorism to combat it and contain its destructive effects. “The Kingdom’s efforts in this regard are clear to all, as it has made several contributions related to combating extremism and terrorism, namely: Establishing the Global Center for Combating Extremist Ideology (Etidal). “Establishing the Islamic Alliance to Combat Terrorism comprising of more than 40 countries, mostly African countries, supporting the UN Counter-Terrorism Center With 110 million dollars. “And, the G5 Sahel Alliance, in which the Kingdom announced a donation of 200 million euros to it,” Kattan said. Responding, Brou expressed appreciation to King Salman bin SAUD and the Government of the Royal Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for the visit geared towards fostering cooperation with ECOWAS. Brou also appreciated the Kingdom for its support in peace-building, particularly its interventions in tackling the global menace of terrorism “Your visit today aimed at sharing the Kingdom’s policy towards African countries can be seized as opportunity to pave the way for closer cooperation with West African countries and in particular with ECOWAS. “ECOWAS welcomes the Kingdom’s diplomatic efforts on the continent and the important role it plays in the area of peace building. “Notably through its support to peace agreement between Ethiopia and Eritrea and the Sahel (i.e G5-Sahel) as well as its call to strengthen international and regional cooperation with security agencies in Africa. “And, to address the root causes of terrorism, especially through the exchange of information, expertise and training,” Brou said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) LIZ/IAA ==== Edited by Isaac Aregbesola