By Stephen Adeleye Chief Moses Eseyin has emerged the Accord party’s 2023 senatorial candidate for Kogi West senatorial District. Eseyin, a former Special Adviser on Youths, Sports and Students Affairs to Gov. Yahaya Bello,  emerged as a consensus candidate at the party’s senatorial primaries conducted for National Assembly aspirants at Kabba, Kogi on Thursday. Also elected were; Mr Oluwabusayo Alonge and Dr Slyvanus Seun as candidates for Yagba and Kabba/Bunu/Ijumu federal constituencies respectively. Eseyin commended the party leadership for the opportunity given  him to fly the flag of Accord in the forthcoming general elections. He said he was impressed that the party gave windows for youths to showcase their wealth of talents in political leadership. Eseyin said  that youths constituted the only demographic that could strenghen the unity of  the entire country. ”I have done it before while I was the special adviser  and we promise to do better. ”I believe by the time I am elected by the grace of God come 2023, I will ensure a better legislative representation for the betterment of the people of Kogi west,” he said. Also speaking, the State Secretary of Accord party, Isaiah Felix, said the candidates emerged via consensus after due consultations between the delegates and party leadership. Felix said the consensus was a measure adopted to discourage huge monetary inducement to delegates which according to him was  today,  a threat to Nigeria’s democracy. He advised Nigerians to guide against vote buying, saying that the problem began  at party primaries. “We cannot be fighting vote buying at  general elections, while keeping closed eyes on  aspirants spending fortunes to buy votes from delegates at  party primaries. “If we must curb vote buying, we must stop it at primaries,”  he said. Alhaji Sadiq Zakariyawu, official of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) who observed the process, commended the party leadership for conducting the election in line with the Electoral Law.(NAN)(nannews.ng) Edited by Francis Onyeukwu/Chioma Ugboma