Oceans By Magdalene Ukuedojor Rabat, June 8, 2022 (NAN) African countries bordering the Atlantic Ocean, known as ‘African Atlantic Countries’ have pledged to collaborate to reduce the effects of climate change on the continent. Twenty three African countries converge on Rabat, Morocco, in commemoration of the World Oceans Day, to deliberate on ways to boost the resources around the Atlantic coast for better economic benefits. In a meeting tagged the ‘First Ministerial Conference of African Atlantic Countries’ they agreed to prioritise the mitigation of climate change effects along the Atlantic coast and African continent. Representatives from the West African region said climate change was a major cause of receding waters and depleting resources around lakes and oceans. Mr Rui Figueiredo Soares, Cape Verde’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, urged African Atlantic Countries to invest heavily in modern scientific initiatives for effective mitigation results. Soares spoke on the need for ‘Blue Economy, Connectivity and Development’ in the region. “In order to achieve a blue economy, connectivity and development, the issue of funding and scientific investment is very important. “Inland states are areas of vulnerability, funding mechanisms are needed to boost and secure our resources. “There must also be concerted efforts to end the spread of illegal fishing in the coast and need to access funds for climate environmental changes. “We must coordinate efforts on climate change; it is a necessity to have a working group for relevant exchange. “We must have a new beginning that will strengthen our relationship in this regard,” he said. Similarly, the Gabonese Foreign Minister, Mr Michael Adamo, said that although the Atlantic was rich in natural resources, the ocean was threatened by pollution. Adamo, therefore, called for the activation of sources of renewable energy for a healthier African environment, particularly around the Atlantic. “For environment and energy, we have the challenge of securing corridors of pollution, we need to coordinate our renewable energies and tackle illegal migration. “Let us use the lessons drawn from the dynamics of the COVID-19 pandemic experience as a compass and link for African cooperation and coordination,” Adamo said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ======== Edited by Isaac Aregbesola