Irregular migrants   By Dorcas Jonah A cross section of stakeholders have called on the Nigeria’s media to educate the public on the dangers of irregular migration. This is contained in a communiqué at the end of a five-day workshop with the theme: `Let’s talk migration 2.2’, organised by the International Organistion for Migration (IOM) in Abuja. The communiqué was signed by Ms Cyprine Cheptepkeny who coordinated the workshop. The stakeholders said there was the need for journalists to probe into why some people defy the risks involved in irregular migration to undertake the journey. “It is the media’s responsibility to make people understand the dangers of irregular migration. “Media professionals need to continuously build their capacity on reporting. “The media can also propagate information and updates on travels and travel documentation like changes in visa application processes to inform public on the right ways to travel,’’ they said. The stakeholders also called for re-orientation of the media professionals on how to measure the progress made on combating irregular migration. They also called on the need for media to take initiatives and project new ways of reporting stories that would bring migration stories into the mainstream discuss. “Government and international development partners need to set up migration news/help desk in media houses by liaising with the heads of the media houses. “There is need for more collaboration and mutually beneficial partnerships amongst media houses rather than competition so as to proffer solution to issues and challenges especially as they relates to migration. “All stakeholders need to focus more on research and verification of data from different sources so that reportage is comprehensive,’’ the stakeholders said. They also advised journalists to partner National Orientation Agency on fact check project to fake news about irregular migration. They advised that the incidences of being “first to report” needs to be checked to prevent the spread of fake news. “They also said there was the need for the media to focus more on reportage and dissemination of information on the safe migration pathways. They also called for empowerment and protection for journalists covering migration stories by the government. (NAN) (www.nanews.ng) ======= Edited by Uche Anunne