By Bashir Rabe Mani The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for Bodinga/ Dange-Shuni/Tureta Federal Constituency in Sokoto State, Alhaji Nasiru Shehu, has unveiled a five-point agenda for the development of his constituency. Shehu said this when he spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Abuja, ”I’m really disturbed about the under-development in my constituency. ”This was actually caused by lack of quality representation by the current lawmaker at the House of Representatives who has been there since 2019. ”So, if elected, I intend to implement a five-point agenda to reverse the ugly trend,” he said. Shehu named the agenda to include; enhancing trade and commerce, boosting security, education, women and youths’ empowerment and agriculture. On trade and commerce, the candidate, who is also the Chairman of Sokoto State traders’ association, promised to assist small and medium scale businessmen with grants and capitals. ”Many of our people want to venture into various businesses, but for lack of adequate capital. ”If elected, I will broaden the scope of my assistance to traders to capture as many as possible. ”With this plan many people will be employed, this will reduce poverty and unemployment, as well as prevent the attendant consequences,” Shehu said. Similarly, Shehu said that, if elected, he will accord top priority to women and youths empowerment to curb youths’ restiveness. ”An idle mind is really the devil’s workshop and the menace of unemployment, especially among the youths can exacerbate the prevailing security challenges,” he said. Shehu, who is also the state chairman of the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC), decried the recurrence of kidnapping, banditry, cattle rustling and other sundry crimes in the area. ”The security challenges have been worrying me and I will partner with the various security agencies to address the situation,” he said. On agriculture, Shehu said that he plans to assist farmers with assorted fertilisers, herbicides, pesticides, implements and improved seed varieties for enhanced yield. ”A lot of people want to venture into farming, but they lack the capital to do so, hence I will be assisting such people to become successful farmers. ”This gesture will boost food production, ensure food security, and bolster the socioeconomic development of the state,” the candidate said. On education, Shehu promised to establish an educational foundation to assist indigent students with bursaries to enable them to acquire education at all levels. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Ali Baba-Inuwa