NCPC boss receiving the first batch of Christian pilgrims in Abuja   By Bridget Ikyado Rev. Yakubu Pam, the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC) has advised Pilgrims to practice and share the good culture they got from the Holy Land in Nigeria. Pam made the call at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Airport, Abuja while receiving the first batch of Christian pilgrims who left Abuja on June 15, to Israel and the Kingdom of Jordan. Pam said that the testimonies of the pilgrims “have been fantastic’’. “The Pilgrims are excited about their experiences in both pilgrimage destinations, Israel and Jordan.’’ The NCPC boss commended the active role played by the medical team, the spiritual leaders and the pilgrimage managers for coordinating an excellent exercise. He affirmed that the 360 pilgrims, who left the country all came back complete without a record of absconding. He prayed that the same testimony would be said of subsequent batches. Pam advised the Pilgrims to go back home and share their experiences with people around them. He urged them to spread the good news of Christ with what they had heard, seen and also touched with their hands. He told them to be good ambassadors of Christ and good citizens of “our great country Nigeria’’. The NCPC helmsman also intimated that the exercise was ongoing and hopefully would be rounded off in September. In his remarks, the Director, FCT Christian Pilgrims Welfare Board, Mr Dabara Audu expressed his joy for the safe return of the first batch of pilgrims for the 2021 main pilgrimage to Israel and Jordan. Audu said that all pilgrims went there for the real purpose of it and not for any other transaction and tourism or any of sort. The numbers that went came back the same and in good health, he added. “We are happy to be back and hope to make impactful change desired for our nation.’’ Another Pilgrim, Chief Adetayo Haastrup, spokesman of the National Hospital Abuja, expressed happiness for a successful trip. He said the Pilgrims had the best reception, accommodation and meals. “We were fed well both physically and spiritually. We prayed for peace and unity in Nigeria. He advised Nigerians to be more patient and observe orderliness wherever they found themselves. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the states that went with the first batch to Israel and Jordan are FCT and Bayelsa. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ======= Edited by Grace Yussuf