By Angela Atabo  Yiaga Africa , Civil Society Organisation (CSO)has commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for deploying additional 209 machines to Kano, Lagos and five states in the Southeast. Executive Director ,Yiaga Africa  Samson Itodo in a statement in Abuja also called on INEC to extend the Continuous  Voter Registration (CRV) exercise by three weeks. Itodo also called  for investigation of allegations of bribery and non-deployment of personnel in some registration centers “As part of efforts to provide independent oversight of the CRV ,Yiaga Africa deployed 119 trained and accredited citizen observers to observe the ongoing exercise in the six geopolitical zones. ” Yiaga Africa Watching the Vote also received reports from its volunteers from all the 36 states and the FCT. “According to the reports received thus far, the CVR exercise has been largely successful except for some glitches that may undermine the transparency and credibility of the process or result in the disenfranchisement of voters if unabated.” Itodo said that  the main challenges observed by Yiaga Africa included malfunctioning of the Voter Enrollment Device (IVED) and inadequate registration devices. He listed others as :capacity deficits on the part of INEC registration officials, inconsistencies in the decentralisation of the CVR in some states, low public awareness of the schedule. He added that locations for the rotational CVR and lastly, extortion and bribery of registration officials were also part of it. He said that Yiaga Africa comments INEC for responding to citizens demands by deploying additional enrollment devices to manage the high turnout of intending registrants in some states.  Itodo, however, said that the group  noted with concern reports alleging denial of the rights of citizens to register and disruptions of CVR in some locations. “Yiaga Africa urges INEC to investigate these reports and ensure the constitutional right of citizens to register to vote is protected. “Having conducted extensive voter mobilisation for the CVR and engaged citizens in various communities across Nigeria, Yiaga Africa recommends the following.” Itodo said that  there was need for INEC to extend the June 30th deadline for the CVR by three weeks. He added that an extension would  accord INEC the opportunity to handle the high volumes of applications for application. The Executive Director said that while they noted  that the CVR extension would require a shift in the schedule, it does not violate, Section 9(6) of the Electoral Act 2022 . He said that the section stated  that, “the registration of voters, updating  and revision of the voter register shall stop not later than 90 days before any election”. He called on INEC to immediately investigate the allegations of the payment of N1,000 for voter registration in some locations, especially in Kaura Namoda LGA in Zamfara state. Itodo also urged INEC to resolve malfunctioning Voter Enrolment Device (IVED). He said that to inspire confidence in the CVR process, INEC is urged to improve the efficiency of the enrollment devices. He also urged  INEC  to ensure timely replacement of malfunctioned devices to prevent suspension of the exercise as was observed in Ilofa, Oke Ero LGA in Kwara State where the CVR was temporarily suspended on Friday, June 3, 2022.  Itodo said that there was need to also address the intimidation and harassment at the registration centers: He called for Improved collaboration to support the CVR process: ” Yiaga Africa commends civil society groups, media organisations, religious and traditional organisations for their steadfastness and commitment to citizen’s mobilisation for the CVR.(NAN)(www.nannnews.ng)