By Okon Okon Dr Ahmad Onilewura, the Presiding Imam of the National Mosque Abuja, has urged political leaders to set aside their differences and work for the unity of the country. Onilewura made the call on Friday at a special Juma’at prayer in commemoration of the Civil Service Week. He said our Founding Fathers worked for the unity of Nigeria make the country better for generations yet to come. The cleric, whose sermon was on ‘Fear of Allah is the beginning of wisdom’, said past leaders succeeded in building Nigeria because they feared God. “With the fear of Allah, those who came before us, our past leaders since 1963 namely; Amadu Bello, Tafawa Balewa, Nnamdi Azikiwe, Awolowo and others did what they could and left the rest for us. “It is now left for us including me to build Nigeria and make Nigeria better for the generation and generation yet to come, ” he said. He urged civil servants to put the fear of Allah first in their services to the country. Also speaking, the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HOCSF), Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan, expressed gratitude to God. She was represented by Dr Nasir Gwarzo, Permanent Secretary, Humanitarian Affair, Disaster Management and Social Development. Yemi-Esan said:” for every important event in life, the moment you put God on the lead, you will get more blessings for it. “I am happy to say that this year’s World Civil Service Week, which will hold on June 23 all over the world, is being commemorated in Nigeria and the first event for this year is the Juma’at prayer, ” HOS said. Other activities include a church thanksgiving service at Exousia Church of God in Mabuchi, Abuja on June 25. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that other activities are; Aerobics, Saturday, an Interactive session with selected Civil Servants from all MDAs, Monday at 10.00 a.m., Rotunda Hall, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Abuja. Others are; the Ground Breaking ceremony for the Federal Integrated Staff Housing (FISH) Programme Estate, on June 21, launch of the Pilot Phase of the Federal Civil Service Bus Scheme at the Eagle Square and a Public Service Lecture with theme, ‘Performance management system: Impact on productivity’. NAN reports that there will the unveiling of a Culture Change Video, Launch of FCSSIP25 Documents and Award ceremony on June 23. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ======= edited by Sadiya Hamza