By Okon Okon Dr Mary Ogbe, Permanent Secretary, Federal Civil Service Commission, has warned the commission’s staff members to desist from defrauding innocent Nigerians under the pretence of offering them jobs. Ogbe gave the warning on Thursday, in Abuja at an award ceremony to reward hardworking members of staff of the commission. Represented by Mr Kasheem Ojirobe, Director Human Resource Management at the commission, Ogbe warn fraudsters parading themselves as staff members, to stop such act that was capable of destroying the country’s image. “There is an allegation that there are member of staff who cannot give job to people but deceive innocent Nigerians that they can offer jobs just to collect money and other gains from them. “This is an allegation but whatever it is, we have to caution them that whoever has the plan to do that should desist. Anybody who is caught will face the wrath of the law. “It is also alleged that some outsiders come here to pose as staff to collect money from people to offer them job in any Ministry, Department and Agency (MDA); such act is bad,” she warned. Speaking further on the significant of the occasion, Ogbe identified reasons for the award initiative, saying that was to make those identified to put more efforts and to make those yet to be identified to work harder so as to gain in the next edition of such ceremony. “The significant of this is to motivate staff to be more dedicated to their duties, to be hard working and at the same time, to be loyal to the institution and the system,” she said. Assuring members of staff of other incentives to boost their morale, the permanent secretary assured of the Federal Government commitment to enhance the remuneration and the conditions of service of civil servants across all MDAs. “The Head of Civil Service has mentioned that government is actually planning to improve the remuneration of civil servants and at the same time, improve on their conditions of service. “So, if government is doing that, it is now important for us to appreciate that gesture and do what we are supposed to do as civil servants so as to move Nigeria forward,” Ogbe explained. In appreciation, Mrs Nnenna Ukpabi, a Human Resource Management, who spoke on behalf of other awardees, expressed delight over the gesture. She said that it was the first time ever in her life to receive such honour since she started working in civil service. According to her, such benevolent gesture and staff welfare are necessary incentives to enhance productivity among civil servants while delivering their services to the nation. “I feel very delighted and I really give all the praise and honour to God because ever since I started working with the civil service, I tried to put in my best and the best I have put in has been recognise,” she said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Yemi-Esan has directed all the MDAs to reward hard working civil servants who have committed themselves to the nation’s service as a mark of honour. NAN reports that this is in commemoration of the Civil Service Day on 23 June. NAN also reports that three staffers of the commission namely; Mrs Nnenna Ukpabi, Mr Ogunmakin Olusola and Mr Musa Ali, were all rewarded with award of outstanding performance in the course of their services in the commission. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ======= Edited by Dorcas Jonah/Isaac Aregbesola