By Salisu Sani-Idris The Savannah Centre for Diplomacy, Democracy and Development (SCDDD) has re-constituted the ‘Council of the Wise’ to assist in continuous engagement of critical stakeholders nationwide in tackling the challenges of nation building. The Executive Chairman of the centre, Amb. Sani Bala, inaugurated the council under the leadership of Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, former President of the Court of Appeal on Monday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that other members of the council include Malam Yazid, a management consultant, Prof. Remi Sonaiya, an educationist and politician, Eng. Ebele Okeke, former Head of Service of the Federation and others. Bala said the inauguration of the council was very fundamental to the existence and progress of the country, adding that national unity and cohesion were key to progress of the nation. He said that without unity no community or country would achieve its objectives, saying ” if there is unity then sky is the beginning not the limits. ” But if there is no unity certainly there will no progress, there will be confusion, chaos and there will be deaths. Nigeria is facing very serious challenges but we thank God. ” Nigeria is endowed with large number of capable and able human resource that can mitigate all the challenges. We have what it takes except one thing, the willingness to do it. ” And activities such as this are meant to bring out that will out of the people so that we agree to unite, overcome, look at our differences and challenges and forge ahead as a united nation.” Bala expressed optimism that the activities of the council of the wise would contribute immensely to the unity of the country. In her speech, Bulkachuwa explained that the potential and real contributions of the council would include but might not necessarily be limited to: unifying the various ethnic, religious, political and socio-economic groupings in Nigeria. According to her, this will be achieved through strategic advocacy and engagements to promote constructive engagement to enhance national unity, good governance through inclusivity, justice and fairness. She said that resurgent insurgency in the Northeast, banditry and cattle rustling in the Northwest, herder-farmer clashes in the North Central, and kidnapping, cultism, communal clashes, among others in the South, continue to threaten the peace and security of the nation. ” The centre is worried that all these developments, if continuously not precisely handled could impact very negatively on the 2023 general elections and national unity. ” The SCDDD has established the Council of the Wise, comprising non-partisan, non religious, reputable and committed men and women with local and national voice, who would act in interlocutory and mediatory capacities. ” More importantly, the council of the wise also consists of critical stakeholders in the nation-building process and project, and who will in their respective roles utilise their enormous influence, skill, moral positions and convening power to foster a peaceful 2023 election that focuses on nation building.” She noted that with the forthcoming general elections, the Nigerian state no doubt needed help to save it from the machinations of its adversaries. ” In this direction, an enormous sense of responsibility and patriotism would be required to which voluntarism and patriotism are crucial. ” It is in this particular regard that the Savannah Centre in 2015 first constituted the council of the wise under the leadership of retired Justice Mohammed Uwais, Chief Justice Nigeria and today, the same committee is being re-constituted under my leadership.” Bulkachuwa commended the board and management of the centre for finding her and colleagues in the council worthy of being assigned the nationalistic and selfless duties. Earlier, a retired Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Mr Aderanti Cornelius, emphasised the need for government to address the problem of social inequality to enhance national unity beyond the 2023 elections. ” There has to be an appreciable and corresponding change in the socioeconomic conditions of citizens for them to buy into the Nigerian project. ” To achieve social equality, the safety nets of the society must be developed and sustained wherein citizens are motivated to act towards a national cause rather than personal or ethic ones. ” Clearly, the future of this country lies squarely in uniting the people. Unity will promote peaceful coexistence. Peace will engender greater national productivity and economic progress and Nigeria will take its rightful place in the comity of nations.” Rev. George Ehusani, the Executive Director, Lux Terra Leadership Foundation, Abuja advocated a network of thinking Nigerians from among Christians, Muslims and diverse ethic nationalities to give the country a sense of direction. (NAN) www.nannews.ng.