By Okon Okon The Federal Government on Tuesday has awarded three members of staff of the Ministry of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs for their outstanding performances in the discharge of their duties. The awardees are Miss Hannah Olakunle, Mr Chinagorom Ajike and Hajiya Fatima Nasko. The award ceremony is in line with the directives given by Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan, the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HOCSF) to all the MDAs to award their outstanding staff, as Nigeria is preparing to join the rest of the world to mark 2022 Civil Service Week on June 23. Speaking at the occasion, the Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, Sen. George Akume, expressed delight on the occasion set aside by the HOCSF to honour hardworking civil servants in the country, including that of his ministry. “It is my pleasure to celebrate with you this year’s occasion to mark Nigeria’s Civil Service Day put together by the ministry to celebrate you, the great staff of the ministry who have worked tirelessly to ensure that the ministry delivers on its mandates. “We are conscious of the central place you the civil servants occupy in translating government policies into action. “That is why the ministry is lending its voice and celebrating its workforce by joining all and sundry in commemorating the year 2022 Nigeria Civil Service Day Celebration, ” he said. Akume, however, used the occasion to remind civil servants in all sectors of government’s efforts, commitments and vision to transform the current civil service to a world class service to accelerate the nation’s development. According to him, this can only be attained through civil servants’ attitudinal change to service delivery and ensuring services are delivered efficiently and effectively at all times. Also, the Director-General, National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Dr Lanre Gbajabiamila, commended the ministry for the gesture in supporting and ensuring the smooth running of government of the country through civil service sector. According to Gbajabiamila, civil servants work relentlessly to keep the administrative machinery functioning effectively, and implementing government policies to ensure continuity, a cardinal characteristic of every government. “The relevance of the civil service to human development and nation building cannot be overemphasised. “In Nigeria and many other countries, the civil service is an essential tool to positively impact the lives of the citizenry and that of the nation’s economy, ” he said. In her contribution, Mrs Patricia Roberts, the Permanent Secretary in the ministry explained that the ministry was making efforts ensuring that challenges faced by it was addressed to further boast the staff productivity. She, however, commended the Sen. George Akume for his relentless efforts on measures put on ground to execute President Muhammadu Buhari’s initiative to uplift 100 millions Nigerian from poverty, which the ministry was mandated to carry out. Meanwhile, Miss Hannah Olakunle, an awardee appreciated the Federal Government and Sen. Akume for the recognition, she pledged to work harder than ever before. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ======= Edited by Grace Yussuf