By Olaide Ayinde Dr  Oluwasegun Isiaka, a National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member, has embarked on free cataract surgery for 20 indigent residents in Bauchi. The exercise is part of his Community Development Service (CDS) project. Speaking during the surgery at the state Specialist Hospital, Bauchi, on Thursday, NYSC State Coordinator, Alhaji Namadi Abubakar, commended the corps member for the selfless service as his CDS project. He called on philanthropists and other wealthy citizens in the state to assist corps members in order to execute their CDS Projects. This, he said, would boost their morale to execute projects that would have direct and positive impacts on the lives of the people in their host communities. Abubakar appealed to the beneficiaries and members of the public to always  co-operate with the authorities in safeguarding the lives and property of corps members posted to their communities for the one year mandatory service. In his remarks, Dr Isiaka, with code number BA/21B/1948, serving at the state’s Specialist Hospital, said the project was to assist the patients who had been diagnosed with cataracts but could not afford to pay for the surgery. He said that a lot of cataract patients patronise unorthodox treatment for the disease because they could not afford the surgery and would later return to the hospital still blind. Isiaka said that the plight of the indigent patients motivated him into embarking on the project, adding that he also sensitises them on where to seek proper treatment. “The project was to help those who can’t afford the surgery so that they will see and educate people of the community on the proper treatment when they are in such situation. “We have created awareness to educate people about cataract and the proper treatment. “This will prevent them from patronising unorthodox treatment and also help convey the message on the right treatment (cataract surgery) for others with the same condition. “20 people were selected and out of this number, we have 11 females and nine males,” he said. The corps member revealed that he  singlehandedly sponsored the project with the sum of N620,500. Malam Mohammed Mohammed, a  beneficiary from Duguri Community, Alkaleri Local Government Area,  who spoke on behalf of others, appreciated Isiaka for the kind gesture. He recalled that Dr Isiaka was among the corps members who attended to him during the NYSC medical outreach in his community in 2021. He prayed Almighty Allah to bless the corps member and wished him a successful life after service. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Fatima Sule/ Isaac Ukpoju