By Sumaila Ogbaje Stakeholders in the oil and gas sector have pledged continued support to positive externalities for host communities and to address their environmental concerns. They also reiterated their commitment to the sustainability of existing and new Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes through culture, education and empowerment. Mr Godfrey Sunday, Project Chairman, Oil and Gas Stakeholders Festival (OGSFEST UYO 2022), disclosed this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja. Sunday said the international oil and gas festival in Nigeria was a platform designed to engender unity and showcase the impact of CSR of the oil and gas sector in developing economies. He said that OGSFEST was initiated in 2018 as a response to the global oil transitioning campaign to mobilise stakeholders in the oil and gas economy to contribute to positive development for the host communities. According to him, OGSFEST, which has been endorsed by the Federal Ministry of Environment, is set to begin with the Lighting of OGSFEST Torch/Flame in Yenagoa, Bayelsa. “The 2022 edition is scheduled to be hosted in Uyo in Akwa Ibom with the theme: “Uniting Stakeholders for Sustainable Corporate Social Responsibility Beyond Oil and Gas. “To kick start the 2022 edition, Gov. Duoye Diri of Bayelsa in company of other top government officials, and OGSFEST Ambassadors will light up the OGSFEST Torch/Flame on July 21 at the Peace Park Government Arcade, Yenagoa,” he said. Sunday said the programme was intentionally conceptualised to bring together governors from oil producing, pipeline-impacted and oil prospecting states as well as key stakeholders. He said the objective was  to explore opportunities for collaborations for environmental development. According to him, the significance of lighting the OGSFEST Torch in Bayelsa is in recognition of the heritage of Oloibiri well 1-Otuabagi being the first community of oil discovery in Nigeria. “The OGSFEST Torch will arrive the host city of Uyo, Akwa Ibom on August 25 signalling the commencement of the festival. “The three-day event is loaded with symposia, carnival, research essay presentations, pageantry, and well-deserved award/dinner night,” said. Sunday , therefore thanked stakeholders for their commitment towards collaborative efforts in rebuilding a robust and engaging oil and gas sector that would genuinely cater for the welfare of the citizens. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)