By Florence Onuegbu The Chairman, Senate Committee on Industries, Sen. Adetokunbo Abiru, on Thursday, empowered 1,250 market women and men in Lagos East with grants totaling N62.5 million. Abiru, who represents Lagos East Senatorial District, unveiled the grant in Epe Local Government Area, along with other projects facilitated through the Office of the Sustainable Developmental Goals (SDGs). Other projects inaugurated included a 960-capacity mini-Stadium, remodeled Oluwo Fish Market; distribution of Hand-planters and grants to Farmers. He said the sum of N50, 000 each as financial grants, would be given to 1,250 market women and men, totalling N62.5 million. According to him, the respective market leaders (Iya Olojas) in the 16 LGs/LCDAs of Lagos East were given the direct responsibilities of selecting 50 members each in their localities, making a total of 800 market women. He said the remaining beneficiaries were nominated by the party structure. ”At this junction, I must publicly acknowledge and appreciate the magnanimity of the Presidency, through the SDGs for the projects we are commissioning today, those we had commissioned in the past and the ones that are yet to be commissioned. ”I specially thank His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, and Her Excellency, Mrs Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, the Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on SDGs. ”The projects attracted to Epe town that are being commissioned today are: a 960-capacity mini-Stadium, which include: Football pitch, Basketball and Volleyball courts, administrative offices, changing rooms and other amenities. ”Also, the remodeling of the popular Oluwo Fish market, which now comprises 240 open stalls, 82 lock-up stalls, five open floors, 12 toilets and four new offices for Iya Oloja and Baba Oloja, Tourism Board and Local Government Staff Security post. ”The empowerment also includes the distribution of hand-planters to about 200 farmers, along with financial grants of N20, 000 for our farmers in the agrarian part of the district,” the senator said. He said the projects and support for market women and rural farmers were part of fulfilment of the social contract with the people of Lagos East senatorial district, while seeking their mandate in 2020. Inaugurating the projects, Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, said that they would have direct impacts on the socio-economic reality of the town. The governor commended Abiru for representing the district diligently in the National Assembly. ”Over the last 18 months, Abiru has dutifully delivered the dividends of democracy in several areas and on multiple fronts, not just in the primary mandate of law making, but also in terms of life-changing empowerment and endowment. ”Today, we are here to commission a number of infrastructure projects by him, some of which are facilitated through the Oofice of the special assistant to President Buhari SDGs, occupied by an esteemed daughter of Lagos, Orelope-Adefulire,” he said. The governor expressed delight on the benefit of the projects to the residents, saying that the market project was commerce-oriented, designed to improve the livelihood and earning capacity of beneficiaries. He said the recreational facility was a project that would positively affect people’s lifestyle and translate to health benefits, as well as improved quality of life. Sanwo-Olu said the lawmaker had lived up to the ideals of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and to the legacy of transformation instituted in Lagos state since 1999. He appealed to the beneficiaries to see the projects as public resources entrusted in their care, urging them to productively utilise the facilities with the utmost sense of responsibility. ”This is also what our great party, the APC, stands for, bringing a better life for all our people, regardless of their age, gender, religion, income or class. Our goal is to ensure that no one is left behind, as we spread development around Lagos,” Sanwo-Olu said. Orelope-Adefulire applauded the lawmaker for making women empowerment a cardinal focus of his activities, noting that such action remained key to strengthening inclusion. She said the empowerment of women was in line with the aim of the SDG. She added that the office of the SDGs in the presidency had facilitated rehabilitation of more than 10 schools and four healthcare projects in the district. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ========== Edited by Lydia Ngwakwe/Chioma Ugboma