Mr Olamilekan Adegbite By Francisca Oluyole Mr Olamilekan Adegbite, the Minister of Mines and Steel Development (MMSD) has awarded 19 staff members  of the Ministry for their immense contributions to the growth of the mining sector. Adegbite gave the awards in commemoration of the week-long activities of the 2022 Africa Public Service Day Celebration on Monday in Abuja. The theme of the event for 2022 is: “Performance Management System: Impact on productivity in the Nigeria Public Sector”. The African Union (AU) sets aside June 23, as the “Africa Public Service Day (APSD) since 1999 and Nigeria has consistently commemorated the day annually with series of activities. The minister said that the 19 staff members were selected from various departments of the ministry, out of which three of them were distinguished with special awards. He also gave 27 retirees deep freezers for serving the ministry as well as the country meritoriously. Mrs Oluwatoyin Akinlade, the Permanent Secretary, MMSD, said that the APSD 2022 celebration was particularly remarkable because of its theme. “I must crave your indulgence that this is coming after the week that was officially set aside for the celebration. It was due to exigencies of duty, it is never too late to celebrate ourselves. ” The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HCSF) approved a full package of  a week-long activity for this year, including Jumat and Church Services, Keep-fit/aerobics session, a Town-hall Meeting and among others. “In the context of the passion of the HCSF for improved productivity and welfare of Civil Servants, there could not have been a better theme for this celebration. ” This can summarise the vision of the HCSF to make the service a world class system that drives optimum productivity through effective and efficient Performance Management. ” She has vigorously pursued the full implementation of the new Performance Management System through training of various categories of officers,” she said. Akinlade said that the ministry had also made efforts within the limit of its available resources to provide facilities that would enhance productivity and staff welfare. “To the glory of God, we now have a clinic that can provide basic health services to all staff to ensure that our health is given adequate priority. “Many may be unaware that within these few months of operation of the clinic, health crises have been averted for some staff just through routine check by the medical team in the clinic. “Also, we can easily see the massive deployment of ICT infrastructure within office complex aimed at achieving the full automation of the work processes in the ministry. “MMSD is among the first set of MDAs to receive these facilities and efforts are on to ensure that we blaze the trail in the service-wide project of work-process automation.” She said that the ministry had achieved a major improvement in the Anti-Corruption Transparency Unit (ACTU) rating from about 26.5 per cent to 74.5 per cent compliance, adding that the ministry had also surpassed its revenue projection. Mr Oseni Abdullahi, one of the retirees of the ministry appreciated the gesture, he advised civil servants to put in their best while serving the country. (NAN) Edited by Julius Toba-Jegede