By Salisu Sani-Idris National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) has commended Prof. Mohammed Haruna, the Executive Vice Chairman, National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) for his giant stride achievements on human capital development. The NYCN Chairman, Keffi Local Government Chapter, Alhaji Mohammed Idris, made the commendation in a statement on Wednesday in Keffi, Nasarawa State. Idris also applauded NASENI for ensuring the implementation of collaboration between Nigeria and Jordan on technology transfer, training, food security and agriculture mechanisation which were outcomes of the recent agreement signed between the agency and the Gheras, Decapolis and Ebsilon Group, Hashemite, Jordan. The youth leader said the agency, under Prof. Haruna, had proved beyond reasonable doubt its capacity to deliver development goods through its achievements in the production and promotion of local content with its numerous innovations. He also hailed the agency for the establishment of many entrepreneurship centres across the country which had the capacity to train youths in various new and emerging technologies and to make them self-reliant. ” We the leadership of NYCN Keffi Local Government, the native town of the NASENI boss, are pleased with how he is repositioning and transforming the agency in line with its mandate. ” We are glad that NASENI, under Prof. Haruna’s watch, has evolved a new approach to addressing the need for a viable and or the laying of a sustainable foundation for the industrialisation of Nigeria. ” We are also grateful to NASENI boss for offering employment opportunities to many indigenes of Keffi and Nasarawa State. “This is what we have been yearning for in our locality. We need more people who value human capital development.” Idris, therefore, called on other sons and daughters of Keffi and Nasarawa states to emulate the efforts of NASENI boss in providing empowerment opportunities for the younger generation. (NAN) Edited by Idris Abdulrahman