NUNAI led by its Acting President, Iteku Amos during a condolences visit to Nigeria’s Ambassador to Italy, Omini Abam at the Nigerian Embassy in Rome.   By Lizzy Okoji Nigerians in Italy have commiserated with the Nigerian Ambassador to the country, Omini Abam, over the death of his father, Usani Abam who they described as a man who made positive impacts in his community. A delegation of the National Union of Nigerians Association in Italy (NUNAI) led by its Acting President, Iteku Amos commiserated with Abam when they paid him a condolence visit at the Nigerian Embassy in Rome. Ituke in a statement on Sunday, said that the death of Abam was also a loss to the Nigerian community in Italy as the Ambassador had been a father to them all. Ituke said that Abam since assuming office as Ambassador had played the role of the father to them and had further strengthened the Nigerian-Italy relations. “We Nigerians in Italy express our sincere condolences and love to entire family of the Nigerian Ambassador to Italy, Amb. Omini Abam, over the celebration of a life well spent of his father, Chief Usani Omini Abam, who joined the Lord on April 16. “It is evidently clear that the ambassador has transformed the image of Nigeria and the lives of Nigerians in Italy. The host country now accords us with a great deal of respect. “By a way of example, His excellency has helped in making the Italian authority to recognise Nigerians’ contributions in such that more Nigerians have been added into the labour system in Italy. “So, in times like this, it is imperative for the union to be supportive to our esteemed Ambassador in mourning,” Ituke said. According to the statement, Mr Adedayo Festus, NUNAI President, Mantova Chapter, Italy and Mr Mike Omeliko, the Association’s President in Napoli also described Abam as a worthy father to Nigerians in Italy. It stated that Pastor Mike Oputteh, NUNAI’s welfare officer on behalf of the Association encouraged the Ambassador and his family to take heart as he appreciated the great job he has been doing. “We give thanks to The Almighty God who has made his excellency survive his father. “It’s worthy of note that late 86 years old man has lived a very remarkable good life and the reflection is evident on our prestigious ambassador. “We pray for the acceptance of the departed soul by God Almighty,” Oputteh stated. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng ==== Edited by Isaac Aregbesola