The National Orientation Agency (NOA) has begun campaign against social vices, including cybercrimes, drug abuse, irregular migration, human trafficking and radicalization. The agency at a one-day security sensitization, also educated students of tertiary institutions against rape, cultism, violence and drug abuse. Dr. Garba Abari, the Director General of the National Orientation Agency (NOA) while declaring open the programme on Wednesday in Kano, said the  sensitisation was a nationwide campaign. He said it was aimed at the attitudinal re-orientation of students in tertiary institutions in Nigeria. The sensitisation, held at the Kano State College of Education and Preliminary Studies has the theme: “Campus Focus. “The agency has, over the years, implemented the same in over 50 higher institutions across the six geopolitical zones of the country and has become highly imperative due to the myriads of vices that have bedeviled the Nigerian tertiary institutions.” Abari, represented by the NOA Director in Kano state, Alhaji Lawal Haruna, said the programme was for reorientation of students on the need to curtail such vices. He said the emphasis on tertiary institutions was supported by the fact that youths contributed over 60 per cent of the labour force, which drove the process of governance and social-development. According to him, this is a continuous nationwide sensitisation campaign aimed at attitudinal reorientation of students in tertiary institutions in Nigeria. “Among the vices are: cultism, drugs and substance abuse, irregular migration and trafficking in persons, Sexual and Gender-Based Violence (SGBV) “It is therefore a great opportunity that this famous Institution has been selected to be a part of this engagement process,”he said. The NOA boss described the youth as the strength of any nation, noting that the sensitisation was important in the fight against all forms of social vices in the country. “NOA objectives is to reawaken the consciousness of students of tertiary institutions on the need to embrace our national core values. “Also alarming trend of Cybercrimes (Ponzi schemes, yahoo-yahoo), ritual killings, Radicalisation, violent extremism, among others,” he said. He added that youths are the backbone and strength of any nation, but, “we must ensure that students are sensitised, mobilised and encouraged to shun all forms of social vices. “Instead, imbibe the Nigerian core values of integrity, patriotism, discipline, self reliance, dignity of labour, social justice and religious tolerance, all of which are necessary prerequisites for sustainable transformation and national development.” According to him, we are focusing on the menace of Drugs and Substances abuse, irregular Migration and Human Trafficking, the threat of Cybercrimes especially yahoo-yahoo accompanied by ritual killings and the rising cases of Ponzi and Pyramid Schemes. “We will create sustainable synergy between the Agency, development partners and tertiary institutions for value re-orientation so as to curtail the rising trend of social vices in  tertiary institutions.” he said. The Provost of the College, Dr. Sanusi Yakubu, described the state of insecurity in the country as worrisome and urged students to take advantage of the programme and make good use of it. Represented by his Deputy, Dr. Muhammad Umar-Sumaila, thanked the agency for the sensitization and assured their continuous collaboration with the agency. “I urge every student to support the national values and stay clear of criminality in the State. I also want to use this opportunity to thanked NOA for choosing their institution for the campaign.” NAN reports that three papers were presented at the programme by Sulaiman Umar, SP of the Intelligence units of the State command on Cyber Crimes. Also, Hajiya Aisha Hamidu, an official of the National Drug Law and Enforcement Agency ( NDLEA) on Drug and Substance Abuse, while Alhaji Aliyu Abba-Kalli, an official of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) presented the third paper on Illegal Trafficking. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)