By Emmanuel Afonne A construction industry expert, Mr Temitope Runsewe, has called on Nigerians, especially stakeholders in the construction industry, to provide more opportunities and roles for women in the sector. Runsewe made the call in a statement issued in Abuja on Sunday to celebrate women. He said that in line with the theme of the 2022 International Women’s Day (IWD) celebration, it was time to ‘break the bias’ that the women can easily be injured on site. Runsewe said that the IWD was set aside to break the silence against gender stereotypes and discriminatory practices affecting women in societies and workplaces. “The celebration, which began as a protest against the reprehensible magnitude of gender inequality in societies worldwide during the 20th century, has garnered considerable followership over the years. “In the 21st century, however, many communities, especially in developing countries like Nigeria, have not fully attained gender parity. “One of those communities plagued with limiting stereotypes that inhibit the growth of women in the workplace is the construction industry,” he said. According to him, the construction industry has a critical role in breaking the biases against women in the workplace being one of the most significant drivers of the economy. “While most concerns about women’s safety in construction are sometimes well-intentioned, it is intrinsically coming from a place laced with biases. “When women are not being relegated to office work, they are being sidelined from managerial positions,” Runsewe said. Exemplifying with names like Abimbola Windapo, Olajumoke Adenowo and Mayen Adetiba and other women pioneers, who have made their marks in the industry, he said that the resilience of the women should be emulated. He said that while the industry remained male-dominated, he had on the part of his company, Dutum Construction Company Ltd., made numerous significant contributions to break the bias. Runsewe also stated that he had always prioritised mentorship and capacity development opportunities for women who chose a career in construction. He said: “Whether deliberate or unconscious, gender discrimination persists in spite of the increasing number of women venturing into Nigeria’s construction industry. “We understand the importance of collaboration above all in addressing these issues and renewing our commitment to creating spaces where women can safely express their concerns to change these systemic challenges.” (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)