By Lizzy Okoji The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the three-day integrated in-country workshop is geared towards the implementation of ECOWAS Protection and Human Security text especially in the context of the COVID -19 pandemic. Dr Sintiki UGBE, Director, Humanitarian and Social Affairs, ECOWAS Commission said that the advocacy is a new approach of the ECOWAS Commission to ensure a holistic approach to safeguard citizens of Member States. UGBE who was represented by Hajiya Raheemat Momodu, Head, Human Security and Civil Society Division, ECOWAS Commission said the policies once adopted by government will create a more precise roadmap for implementation. “This is the fifth country that ECOWAS is undertaking this advocacy and capacity building. It is a new advocacy binging together multiple stakeholders who share the mandate of creating, and strengthening protection. “It aims at bringing as many stakeholders as possible that have shared responsibilities to deliver on protection and human security of the individual.  “It is an intervention that is going round our member states and the idea is to promote and institutionalise a government whole approach, society whole approach to protection and human security.  “The idea is for us to see protection and human security as a collective responsibility of all of us in our little corner, so there is a bigger picture of what we are contributing to.  “We are in a time where we need to approach human security from the individual perspective, the safety of the individual, the protection of the individual, rather than see it as hardcore, very operational and tactitcal.  “But the end result is for all of us to feel safe, secured and to know that whether it is government, or individual, we all have a shared responsibility,” UGBE said.  UGBE said that the second component of the intervention will follow the advocacy workshop where recommendations from experts will be taken to the highest level of government. She said that for the Nigerian government, it will be taken to the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). This, she explained will enhance coordination mechanism where the ECOWAS Commission can subsequently interface with rather than reaching out to individual MDAs or CSO. UGBE said that a seed funding for the operationalism of the intervention has also been made available by the ECOWAS Commission which will be given to the government as soon as the roadmap is signed.  Amb. Musa Nuhu, Nigerian Permanent Representative to ECOWAS lauded the ECOWAS Commission for its proactive initiative, pledging government’s commitments to protection and security of citizens. Nuhu who was represented by Mr Samuel Makwe, Consellor in his office said that he expects that theworkshop will contribute to the improvement of human security in the region by building capacities of relevant stakeholders. “Through increased awareness, coordination and commitment to holistic protection of all persons in vulnerable situations, especially in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.  “Without doubt, the COVID-19 Pandemic has exposed the flaws of the current international order or world system, and the West African region is not spared of its negative effects. “While the region needs time to recover and build back better, proactive measures must be taken, at all levels, to ensure that the recovery processes are sustainable. Hence, it is imperative that this meeting addresses all-encompassing thematic, renew our commitment to promote.  “And mainstream the protection and human security approach in our national development plans and policy actions,” Nuhu said. Mr Peter Hawkins, UNICEF Representative to Nigeria and ECOWAS commended the ECOWAS Commission for its timely intervention, noting that now more than ever a lot has to be done to guarantee human security. Hawkins who was represented by Ms Adebisi Ariye, UNICEF Partnerships Manager (ECOWAS) said that social protection is now recognized globally as a strategy to reduce poverty, inequality and social exclusion. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)