By Lizzy Okoji As Nigeria prepares towards 2023 general elections, South Korea has called for credible and violence free polls, stressing that the exercise was crucial to Africa and the entire world. Mr Kim Young-Chae, Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to Nigeria, said this in Abuja, while briefing newsmen on bilateral, political, cultural and trade relations between both countries, as well as possible areas to advance cooperation. “Nigeria’s election is not only important to Africa but the entire world, considering how influential and strategic the country is,” he said. Kim, therefore, urged the government, political parties and citizens to stick to the rules and allow the electoral body to discharge its duties. The ambassador pointed out that on March 9, South Koreans elected a new President through a credible and peaceful process, admonishing Nigeria to do same. “You have your general elections next year, it is very important to the Nigerian government, the Nigerian people and to the world. “Nigeria is the biggest democracy, biggest economy in Africa, so Nigeria means a lot not only to this region but globally. “We want to see that the election process should be peaceful, without violence, it should be free and fair, and it should be transparent. “You have a heavy responsibility to ensure peaceful election. That is very important and I hope that it will happen,” he said. According to him, there has been a peaceful and stable democracy since 1999. Democratic practice has been deep in the country. I will urge everyone to also accept results when it is announced. “South Korea elected a new presidential, and candidate of the opposition was declared winner. “Like Nigeria, we have two major parties. This time, the opposition won with less than one per cent and I am very proud of Korean citizens because the election was done peacefully. “The process was free, fair and transparent, I am proud,” Kim said. Kim, who commended Nigeria for its sustained democracy since 1999, urged the country to maintain the tempo. (NAN) (www.nanews.ng)