By Fortune Abang The International Organisation for Migration (IOM), Nigeria Mission, has called on government partners, civil society organisations, and the UN community in Nigeria to design gender-responsive migration policies to foster gender equality. Nigeria Chief of Mission, Frantz Celestine, made the call in a statement in commemoration of the 2022 International Women’s Day (IWD), celebrated globally on March 8. This year’s IWD with the theme, “Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow” acknowledges the contribution of women and girls around the world, particularly in leading the charge on climate change adaptation, mitigation, and response for a sustainable future. According to him, the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development commitment to “leave no-one behind” recognises both migration and gender equality as integral to sustainable development. “More than 135 million female migrants comprise somewhat less than half of the global international migrant population, a testament to the gendered dimensions of migration. “Today, more female migrants migrate independently for work, education, and as heads of households across West Africa and Nigeria, female migrants might face stronger discrimination and are more vulnerable to mistreatment and abuse. “Along the migratory routes or in a host country they may experience double discrimination, both as migrants and as women compared to male migrants. “On the one hand, women are powerful agents and leaders in their families and communities, providing resources for their families, facilitating migration, and adapting during displacement. “We call on government partners, civil society organisations, and the UN community in Nigeria to craft gender-responsive migration policies to foster global efforts towards gender equality. “On this year’s international women’s day, let us renew the commitment to making our societies more equal for everyone, irrespective of origin, age, gender, and migratory status,” he said. He observed that in northeast Nigeria, more than half of the displaced population are women and girls, and said that sex-disaggregated data is essential to the provision of tailored humanitarian aid based on evolving needs and profiles of the affected populations. “Information broken down by sex provides a better understanding of the gender dimensions of migration; IOM’s Displacement Tracking Matrix, one of the key enablers of the humanitarian response in the region, is a critical part of our work in profiling and assessing the needs of IDPs. “In addition to this, female Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) experience displacement differently from men and boys. “They face challenges like exclusion from the decision-making process and participation in livelihood activities. “Those with disabilities are further excluded and alienated, which directly impact their well-being and psychosocial health. “Through the Women’s Participation Project, IOM seeks to empower individuals and enhance women’s decision-making participation to reduce their perception of risk to gender-based violence (GBV),” he said. Similarly, he mentioned that in the South, female returnees led the way in sustainable reintegration through income-generating activities, adding that since 2017, more than 5,000 female returnees received individual or collective reintegration support to build up their lives from scratch. Also that from Edo to Abia, Rives to Lagos, Nassarawa to Kaduna, numerous emerging entrepreneurial minds had grown their businesses and could cater for themselves and their families. He recalled that the mission had in the past five years helped more than 22,500 Nigerians (or 42 per cent) including women return home safely from areas where they were exposed to abuse, trauma, exploitation, and even death. “Through essential support from the federal government and state agencies, financial resources from donor countries, IOM is committed to continuing its work in harnessing the rich potential of young Nigerians within their home country. “We are here to support the women and men of Nigeria achieve and maintain sustainable development. “Even if we can see the light in the tunnel, ongoing pervasive effects of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) continue to have a negative impact on women migrants. “They are more likely to work in the informal economy, especially domestic service and care sector with insecure contracts and no paid leave or ability to work remotely,” he added. According to him, women migrant workers already have to grapple with multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination and inequalities, gender-specific restrictions in migration policies, insecure forms of labour, racism, and xenophobia. “Moreover, the increased costs incurred with new travel requirements, lockdowns, and border closures dramatically exacerbated women’s inequalities in migration,” he also said. He said such measures had trapped women with perpetrators of GBV often using COVID-19 as a means of coercive control, isolating them and their children. He said that such practices should have no place in modern society. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)