By Ikuru Lizzy Mr Erastus Awortu, Chairman, Andoni local government area of Rivers says his administration will continue efforts towards eradicating cholera as he unveiled the second phase of his water project.   Awortu said this on Tuesday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Port Harcourt.   He said his administration would continue to give adequate attention to infrastructure development, especially water supply to check cholera outbreaks in the area.   The chairman said that the second phase of the water project had been completed in some communities while others were at the near completion stage.   “We have activated water projects at Asuk Oyet and Asuk Ama communities, water treatments plants will be installed before the end of this month to enable the communities to enjoy potable water for the first time.   “We also rehabilitated a moribund water supply plant site at the Government Secondary School Ngo town, the council’s headquarters.   “This plant effectively serves a large area of the community and goes a long way to curtail water-borne diseases in the area.   “We have also installed water at the Ngo General Hospital to address water shortage which is one of the challenges hindering smooth operations at the facility.   “The council has rebuilt the collapsed portion of the hospital fence to promote security around the facility.   “We are particular about water supply because some of these communities have ordinarily become cholera endemic areas with visible records on mortality rates due to lack of potable water,” he said.   The council boss also revealed that his administration looked forward to achieving results in the areas of roads, bridges, and culverts so as to promote inter-communal connectivity and boost the local economy.   “Work has commenced on the 1.2 km Asarama/Egendem/Unyeada link road with drains on both sides of the road. When completed, the issue of perennial flooding would have been addressed in the affected areas.   “We shall also as soon as possible commence work on the Usabamung Bridge linking Unyeada town to other communities in Ward 6,” he added.   In an effort to further complement and promote synergy with the security operatives, the chairman said that the council recently donated a new security Hilux vehicle to the Asarama Division of the Nigerian Police Force. (NAN)