By Oluwaseun Fadugba Simeon Akinsola of the Lagos State University (LASU) has emerged the Most Valuable Player (MVP) in the male badminton event at the ongoing Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA) in University of Lagos. Similarly, Damilola Oyedepo of Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba (AAUA), emerged the MVP in the female category of the event. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that both players were outstanding in their respective events. Akinsola won three bronze medals in the Men’s team, Mixed doubles and Men’s singles, while Oyedepo also won a silver medal in Women double event. Akinsola told NAN that his victory at the games was as a result of dedication and constant training for four months. “I am delighted to get this award. Training has not been easy. I have been playing badminton since I was in secondary school. “I have practised well enough and also determined to give my 100 per cent commitment. “This is just a starting point of my career because I want to play at the highest level of badminton,” he said. For Oyedepo, who is a Kinetics and Physical Education student, said her wish was to take badminton as a career. She noted that her first appearance in the NUGA helped her to develop more interest in the sport. “I am surprised because I did not expect it. I believe my single event got me this award because I played with all of my strength. “I want to take badminton game further, I have been playing right from my secondary school. “Thanks to my coach because the game took longer than we expected, but we were not tired because we had been trained for it. “We trained overnight and it did not come as a surprise when we played all night,” she said. NAN reports that Team Ahmadu Bello University led the medals table with three gold, one silver and two bronze medals, while University of Ilorin is second with three gold, one silver and one bronze medals. The Federal University Dutsinma (FUD), Kastina, is in third place with one gold and one silver in the sport.