By Aminu Garko The ongoing industrial action embarked upon by Niger State and local government staffs, has paralysed healthcare delivery system of the State. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that patients at the Minna, Suleja, and Kontagora general hospitals, as well as those at the neonatal maternal hospital, Minna were evicted from the hospitals due to the strike. Relations of patients who could afford the cost have transferred them to private hospitals that are currently making brisk businesses over the strike that entered the second week. For families, who could not afford the exorbitant medical bills charge by private hospitals, some have moved their sick relations to Federal medical centre, Bida, for medical attention. Others moved their sick ones to the only available Federal medical facility in the state or have decided to patronise the traditional healing homes and herbal centres. A senior health official, who pleaded anonymity, said the strike was taking it tool on hapless residents of the state. It said that the skeletal service provided by Management staff was not impacting on the needs of patients. According to the source, “patients are suffering especially those who cannot afford the services of private practitioners. “The government should do the needful in order to restore normal health services across the State in Government hospitals. The source added that some health officials will not want the strike to end soon because they are smiling to the banks. “Some of colleagues will not want this strike to end soon because the fact remains that some of them are the proprietors of some of the Private hospitals currently making brisk business. Meanwhile, organised Labour in Niger has transmitted its two-week warning strike to an indefinite strike following the breakdown of negotiations with government officials. The State government last week shifted ground by ceding to some of the demand like the refund of the 30 per cent salary deductions in 2020. Gov. Abubakar Bello had agreed to commence the payment of the suspended retired Civil Servants gratuities by accepting to set aside N200 million monthly to liquidate the outstanding arrears. However, the major area of contention is the percentage payment of Local government workers salaries which Labour insisted must be restored. The situation took a new dimension on Wednesday when organised labour issued a statement calling on workers to immediately embark on an indefinite strike. This followed reports that local government areas are still paying percentage salaries to their workers. In a statement, signed by Yakubu Garba, Chairman, Nigeria Labour congress, Niger state council, labour ordered workers to commence the indefinite strike. He said the directive was sequel to the observation that Local government Areas of Niger state are adamant to meet Labour’s demand. “It has come to the notice of organised labour that 70 per cent of February, 2022, salary was paid to workers of Rafi Local Government Areas of Niger on March 15th, 2022. “The percentage payment was neither agreed to by civil servants in Rafi LGA nor representative of the union”. According to him, the action of the council negates the progress made in the ongoing negotiations between the organised labour and representatives of Niger state Government headed by the Deputy Governor. Organised labour said the strike would remain in force until salaries of workers in the 25 Local government Areas are paid in 100 per cent gross component. (NAN)