By Aderogba George AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF), a non-governmental organisation (NGO) has called on the Federal  Government and  other  world leaders to invest more resources in the fight against Tuberculosis (TB) in order to achieve a healthy society. The foundation made the call in a statement released  on Thursday in Abuja by Mr Steve Aborisade, the  Advocacy and Marketing Manager AHF Nigeria, in commemoration of the 2022 World Tuberculosis Day. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that TB is a serious infection of the lungs, caused by a bacterium that spreads through tiny droplets, released in the air when an infected person coughs or sneezes. The Foundation’s 2022 World TB Day’s theme is: “Invest in Health: Get tested for HIV and TB” on World TB Day. Aborisade quoted the  Country Program Director AHF Nigeria, Dr Echey Ijezie,  as saying; Tuberculosis is a serious health threat, especially, for people living with HIV. Ijezie explained in the statement  that people living with HIV were more likely  to become sick with TB than others without it. He added that AHF Nigeria was creating more awareness and educating people on how they could protect themselves and care for those with TB. “TB is one of the world’s most deadly infectious diseases and the leading cause of death among people living with HIV. “Even though TB is entirely preventable and treatable, more than 4,100 people lose their lives every day to TB, and nearly 28,000 more contract the virus, according to WHO. “This is why it is so vital that global leaders boost investments to fight the deadly disease, while individuals everywhere are encouraged to get tested for HIV and TB.” Guillermina Alaniz, the  AHF Director of Global Advocacy and Policy , said that  COVID-19 pandemic had captured the world’s attention over the last two years, but tuberculosis remained a significant threat to people in all countries. “It is even more dangerous for people living with HIV, since they are 18 times more likely to develop active TB disease than people without HIV. “With our theme “Invest in Health: Get tested for HIV and TB,’’ the foundation wants to send the message loud and clear that the world must do more to preserve the precious gains made in recent years, fighting TB and to make the much needed push to end the preventable and treatable disease,’’ Alaniz said. According to Alaniz, in commemoration of the day, selected AHF teams will have virtual and in-person advocacy events on the theme of the day. “In Nigeria, the foundation will be joined by advocates for a road walk in Makurdi in Benue to create awareness about the disease while encouraging people to test for TB and HIV. “Interactive jingles on TB will also be aired on radio by AHF officials, alongside Benue state government and other  partners to drive the messages closer home, while linking those needing help to available interventions.” NAN reports that World TB Day is observed on March 24 annually to raise awareness and understanding about one of the deadliest infections, with devastating health, social and economic impacts.  It is also a day to commemorate the German physician and bacteriologist, Dr Robert Koch, who discovered TB bacillus, the bacterium responsible for the diseases. AHF is the largest global AIDS organisation, currently providing medical care and services to over 1.6 million clients in 45 countries, including Nigeria.