By Ifeanyi Olannye Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta on Wednesday commiserated with the family of Sen. Patrick Osakwe, who died on Tuesday at the age of 73. The governor in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, in Asaba, expressed sadness on the death of the Septuagenarian politician, who represented Delta North Senatorial District between 1999 and 2011. He also extended his condolences to Ugiliamai community, Onitcha-Ukwuani clan and the entire Ndokwa nation over the loss of one of their pillars and elder statesman. Okowa recalled that Sen. Osakwe was a vocal voice in the Senate between 1999 and 2011 and contributed immensely to the establishment of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). He said the deceased contributed meaningfully in the works of Senate Committees on Gas, Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions, Appropriation, Niger Delta and Senate Services where he served. He also said that the late lawmaker attracted some infrastructural development to Ndokwa land and the senatorial district. The governor said the deceased was a great man, who served his country and humanity with all his strength and talent, adding that he was a worthy leader in Anioma nation. “We have lost a great leader and patriot whose contributions to the growth and development of Delta and Nigeria can best be described as inspirational and worthy of emulation. “The late Sen. Patrick Osakwe was a reputable lawyer, distinguished politician, lawmaker par excellence, elder statesman and astute businessman, and will be remembered for redefining the place of service and patriotism in Delta and Nigeria. “He will be sorely missed by all whose lives he affected in many ways. “I, therefore, urge all who mourn the late Sen. Osakwe to take solace in the fact that he lived a life of great accomplishments. “On behalf of my family, the government and people of Delta, I mourn with the family of the late distinguished Sen. Patrick Enebeli Osakwe, the Ndokwa nation and Anioma people in general on the demise of their father and leader,” the governor said. Okowa prayed God to grant his immediate family the strength to bear the rather huge loss.(NAN) (www.nannews.ng)