By Georgina Adegbie One man’s meat is another man’s poison, so goes the expression which can best capture part of the mood after Tuesday’s disappointing failure of the Super Eagles in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that food vendors at the filled-beyond-capacity Moshood Abiola National Stadium were full of smiles even after most of their customers left for home disappointed. The return leg match of the 2022 FIFA World Cup playoff fixture between Nigeria and Ghana had ended in disappointment after the home side drew 1-1, a result which meant they failed to qualify. But before then, with spectators having stormed the stadium as early as 8 a.m. in order to get good positions, sale of food had been a big business. And, while the spectators were leaving with dissatisfaction, the food vendors were heading home with satisfaction. A cross-section of the food vendors told NAN that they made a lot of reasonable gains in spite of the day’s unhappy ending. Florence Okorodudu, a food seller who is very popular with regulars at the stadium, said she had no reason to complain even as she was unhappy the Super Eagles did not advance. “I sold rice with stew, as well as swallowable items such as ‘semovita, akpu and garri’ with soups made from melon, vegetables, okro, as well as meat or fish, and a place went for 1,000 Naira. “I also brought drinks in excess, thinking that after our victory, our guys will come and celebrate till daybreak. “And I must admit that I made some good sales before and during the match. “The only drawback was that our place became empty immediately after the match because they (the customers) all headed to their various homes after the match,” she said. Aisha Amadu, who sold different types of drinks, said she was happy she finished selling all her goods. “I came here with 50 bags of pure water, and 10 packs of bottled water, plastic bottles of Coca-Cola, Fanta and Sprite. “I was selling a sachet of pure water at N20 and plastic bottle of Coca-Cola at N250 and bottled water was N200, and this was from morning till before the match. I sold everything. “After seeing the huge crowd, I had to ask my brother to bring more water and drinks even before I finished selling the first batch. “And minutes before the match, I started selling a sachet of pure water at N50, and bottled water at N250 and the drinks at N300. I really thank God for a day like this,” she said.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng)