By Cecilia Ologunagba The Minister of Women Affairs, Mrs Pauline Tallen, has shared some success stories about Nigeria’s effort on women empowerment. Tallen made this known at the ongoing 66th Session of the Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) in New York. The UN Correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports the two-week session focuses on “Achieving Gender Equality and the Empowerment of all Women and Girls in the context of Climate Change, Environmental and Disaster Risk Reduction Policies and Programmes.’’ Tallen told NAN after she delivered Nigeria’s statement that Nigeria has implemented some climate friendly projects and programmes to empower women and girls. “Nigeria government is implementing several projects, including the Great Green Wall Initiative, creation of green jobs and other initiatives by non-governmental organisations and climate smart agricultural practices. “Also, the Nigeria for Women Project (NFWP), the brainchild of the Federal Government has raised over N1 billion in various rural businesses across the six geopolitical zones. “The money was pooled by over 200,000 women in five states through a sustained livelihood programme. “The programme is aimed at enhancing the socio-economic status of women in Nigeria and is being executed in line with the approved Environmental Social Management Plan of the Federal Government,’’ she said. The minister said there was an increase in financial inclusion for women through various women credit facilities, particularly in Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) Development Fund, providing cheap and long-term financial resources for the development of the MSMEs sector in Nigeria. According to her, 60 per cent of this fund targets women entrepreneurs, which will aide in improving the nation’s economy. Other initiatives, she said were the Youth and Women in Agriculture Business Investment programme which has provided training and agribusiness start-up support to an additional 2,421 Financial Inclusion Policy and Livelihood Support Programme for Rural Women abounds. “The recently Eco-friendly sanitary pads programme for women and girls provides accessible, affordable biodegradable and nontoxic pads for improved hygiene especially for women and girls on menstrual cycle. “Nigeria has also put in place some measures including sensitisation and advocacy programmes for the women through conversion of agro-wastes, industrial wastes and plastic wastes produce to more important finished products like organic fertilisers for healthy farming, pulp, and paper to mitigate the loss of trees.’’ Tallen said the government had embarked on propagation of drought tolerant tree and tropical fruit crops to combat drought and desert encroachment and conversion of solid biomass and waste to other alternative carbon sources for fuel with emphasis on Methanol. She said it has also increased the production of fish using improved technology such as solar dryers in the drying and preservation of agricultural produce such tomatoes, pepper, okro, among others. “These technologies are environmentally friendly and climate change compliant. “We are mentoring young women and girls in secondary schools on climate change by organising series of activities to raise a climate responsive generation by educating them on the adverse effects of climate change. “Other measures include providing institutional and financial support to women and youths for business startups,’’ the minister said. Tallen also revealed that Nigeria has provided institutional and financial support to women and youths to embark on the development of small and medium enterprises, provision through the Young Professionals Programme (YPP). “YPP is aimed to build a workforce of young and competent individuals that can champion economic growth and diversification through research, skills development, and innovations. “Other programmes include Government Enterprise Empowerment Programme (GEEP), Northeast Rehabilitation Fund (NERF), to rejuvenate economy of the Northeast region following the adverse impact of the insurgency. “Other countries can learn from Nigeria for Women Project, a project that centers on building social capital and enable livelihood support for women affinity groups.’’ The 66th CSW which started on March 14 will end on Friday.(NAN)