By Salisu Sani-Idris The National Association of University Students, on Saturday in Keffi, Nasarawa State, reiterated its commitment to safeguard the academic interest and personal welfare of students across the Nigerian universities. Mr Aliyu Maigoro, the newly-elected Chairman of Campus Monitoring Committee, Nasarawa State chapter, gave the assurance in his acceptance speech after he emerged winner at the First Elective Congress of the association. Maigoro also pledged to work assiduously to ensure that Nigerian universities were acting in a way that would promote academic interests and the welfare of students. “I strongly believe that the welfare of students is key to attaining academic excellence. “It is therefore imperative and crucial for students to elect capable and workaholic persons that understand their interests and are committed to safeguarding such interests,” he said. He disclosed a plan to ensure a strong synergy and collaboration with all universities’ Students Union Government (SUG) presidents. Maigoro said that he would work with the school management in ensuring that the restaurants on campus sold foods that represent the diverse nature of students’ campuses. “I think it is fair that the foods sold on campus should cater for all. We will partner with Entrepreneurship Development Centers in ensuring that students take advantage of the skills available in securing their dream jobs. “I will also partner with all class representatives and school officers in tackling any challenge that will otherwise affect the academic interests and welfare of students on campuses. “We will also ensure that all the union’s programmes are centered on promoting the culture of equality, diversity, and inclusion,” he said. Maigoro expressed gratitude to all the delegates that traveled from their universities and campuses to cast their votes against all odds. “The democratic expression was the most important meaning of this election and we have profound majority support. “We shall build on that to consolidate on the struggle by the national leadership to end Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) strike. “I promise to turn the expectations of the teeming students population into reality as a matter of utmost priority. “I will discharge my duties efficiently and effectively, according to the constitution of our Noble organisation,” he added. (NAN) ) (www.nannews.ng)