By Monday Ijeh The Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Muhammad Dingyadi, has expressed shock over the sudden death of Joseph Egbunike, a Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) who died on Tuesday. Dingyadi, in a statement by his Press Secretary, Mr Osaigbovo Ehisienmen, on Wednesday in Abuja, described Egbunike, as a highly celebrated cop. The minister expressed sympathy with the immediate family of the late DIG during his condolence visit to the deceased residence in Abuja. He said the death of Egbunike was a great loss to his immediate family, the Nigeria Police Force and Nigeria respectively. The minister prayed that God Almighty should grant the deceased eternal rest, comfort his immediate family and the Nigeria Police Force as well. Dingyadi enjoined the Nigeria Police family to draw strength from the outstanding prowess of the departed DIG and see his professionalism and conduct as morale beacon for excellence in the discharge of their duties. Also, the Inspector-General of Police (I-G), Mr Usman Baba, has condoled with the family, relatives, and friends of the late DIG The Acting Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi said this in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja. “The I-G, on behalf of the Force Management Team, and Officers of the Nigeria Police Force, regrets to announce the demise of DIG Joseph Egbunike, which occurred on Tuesday at about 9 p.m. “Egbunike died in active service at the National Hospital, Abuja, after a brief illness “Until his death, the late DIG was in charge of the Force Criminal Investigation Department and the supervisory DIG in charge of the South-East,” he said. He said Egbunike was a dedicated and seasoned police officer who served the nation in various capacities including as the Commissioner of Police in charge of Police Accounts and Budget. Egbunike who hailed from Onitsha, Anambra, held a Bachelor of Science in Accounting from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, a Bachelor of Laws (LLB Hons.), B.L., a Masters in International Law and Diplomacy (MILD), and a PhD in Criminology.(NAN) (www.nannews.ng)