Mr Olayinka Subair, Pfizer Nigeria’s Country Manager and Cluster Lead, West Africa, says the company is committed to improving patients’ lives and reducing disparities in cancer care. Subair in a statement on Monday in Lagos, said the company showcased its dedication to health equity by supporting Medicaid Cancer Foundation and Leah Foundation to provide free breast cancer screening to women. He said that the breast cancer screening was provided to women in Abuja, Kebbi, Niger, Kwara, Kogi and Oyo states, as part of activities in commemoration of World Cancer Day. According to him, the screening provided by the foundations was to draw attention to the need for early detection toward saving lives. “We are choosing to close the care gap by providing access to accurate information and knowledge about cancer, empower us all, as health equity can only be achieved when everyone has the opportunity to reach his or her full health potential without barriers or limitations,” he said. Subair noted that Pfizer’s legacy in breast cancer spans over two decades, with a strong foundation in research and development to ensure support for breast cancer patients. Also, Mr Lanre Bello, Executive Director, Leah Foundation, said Pfizer’s intervention was life-saving, noting that most of the rural women had no prior knowledge of breast cancer. “This is a pointer that more needs to be done in terms of advocacy and screenings,” he said. Bello appealed to corporate organisations, religious bodies, trade unions, women associations and governments to collaborate to raise awareness, provide screenings and necessary interventions that would assist to reduce cancer disease burden. He noted that bi-annual screening was recommended, especially for women in the rural locations. Similarly, Ms Hadiza Arome, Senior Programme Manager, Medicaid Cancer Foundation, said the breast cancer awareness and free screening programme targeted persons who met age and medical eligibility guidelines, especially rural women. Arome said this would ensure that all women screened by the foundation received appropriate and timely follow-up, diagnosis and treatment. She noted that screening the target populations through regional public education efforts would also assist in reducing morbidity and mortality from the disease. (NAN)