By Awayi Kuje Alhaji Ibrahim Abdullahi, the Speaker, Nasarawa State House of Assembly, says the rehabilitation of the 48km Toto-Umaisha Road in the state will boost economic activities and ease transportation in the area. Abdullahi said this on Sunday while addressing newsmen in his Umaisha country home in Umaisha Development Area of the state. He noted that the road, after rehabilitation by the Gov. Abdullahi Sule administration would also boost agricultural, revenue and socio-economic activities of the people. The speaker disclosed that the state government was set to install four transformers in the area to further boost rural electrification for grassroots development. “Gov. Abdullahi Sule in his magnanimity has approved some life touching projects in my constituency, “The governor has graciously approved the rehabilitation of the Toto-Umaisha road, aside the approval for the installation of four transformers in my constituency. “Development they say, begins with road, when we have good road and electricity, what else do we need, with this, other things will follow. “The importance of road and power supply to the development of any community could not be over emphasised. “Ours as legislators, is to lobby, and that is exactly what I am doing as your representative, the state government has carried out lots of projects in this community, my constituency to be precise. “Many school blocks across electoral wards have been renovated, aside the new upstair buildings at Transfer School, Umaisha, the Ta’al Model School in Umaisha is presently undergoing total renovation, among others,” the speaker added. “Aside these projects which I have lobbied and attracted to my people, I have carried out lots of my personal projects and programmes at my own capacity, ranging from education support programmes and scholarship. “Women and youths empowerment, projects for the riverine communities, street lights and agriculture support programmes for the farmers and many others,” he said. Abdullahi thanked the governor for the passion he has for his constituents and re-assured him of their total support for re-election in 2023. “We have two super investors in this area, the Flour Mills and AZMAN Farms presently courtesy of Gov. Abdullahi Sule, aside his security efforts and lots more,” the speaker said. He therefore called on his people to continue to pray for the governor and support the APC government at all levels to succeed beyond 2023. (NAN)