By Sumaila Ogbaje   The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, on Monday activated the newly-constructed Nigerian Army ultra modern Operations Centre in Abuja to coordinate and control its operational engagements across country. The Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, said this in a statement in Abuja. Yahaya commended the former Chief of Army Staff and Nigeria’s Ambassador to the Republic of Benin, Tukur Buratai, for his foresight in conceiving the project. He said the new operations centre would serve as a command centre, situation room, as well as operational briefing center for the Nigerian army. The COAS also expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for his untiring support, saying the Nigeria army is better poised to fight insecurity in the country. On his part, Buratai commended effort of the current leadership in ensuring the completion of the project.   Buratai added that the earlier design of the edifice had been improved upon with several value additions that had upgraded the capabilities of the centre to international standard.   He said that the configuration was more befitting and highly professional in standard, saying that planning and execution were critical to successes of military operations.   According to him, to have a befitting ultra modern operations centre is an indication of army’s dynamism, seriousness and commitment to professionally perform its constitutional roles.   He enjoined the Nigerian army to continue to operate in collaboration with sister services and security agencies to fully attain its constitutional mandate. The Chief of Operations (Army), Maj.-Gen. Olufemi Akinjobi, said the centre is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities that would enable it serve tripartite functions of command centre, situation room and operations briefing facility.   Akinjobi said the centre would afford Army Headquarters an enhanced reach and capability to quickly intervene, direct and influence ongoing operations. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)