By Philomina Attah The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) in collaboration with the British Advisory Training Team (BMATT), has commenced a Joint Integrated Campaign Planning Course for military and paramilitary agencies. The training course is in continuation of the efforts to promote synergy among security agencies in the ongoing war against insecurity in the country. The Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, said the Course would develop an understanding of the joint and integrated approach to operations as well as the operational level planning process and operational art. Irabor, who was represented by Maj.-Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, Director, Special Operation Forces, Defence Headquarters, reminded the participants that daily attendance was mandatory throughout the period of the course. According to him, the course is aimed at developing the capacity of the officers of the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) and other security agencies on joint campaign planning at the operational and strategic level. He said the course would also develop an understanding of the joint and integrated approach to operations as well as the operational level planning process and operational art. The CDS further said that course would enhance participants’ understanding of campaign planning process. He said the participants were drawn from the services, military institutions, Nigeria Police, Department of State Services (DSS), the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Nigeria Customs Service and Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS). According to him, the inclusion of the DSS, police, NSCDC, NCS and NIS personnel on the course is to generate a synergy, promote rapport and understanding in the roles of campaign planning. ”This is particularly now that the AFN is engaged in asymmetric warfare which made most operations joint and interagency. “It is viewed as a precursor to entrenching multi-agency training to enable us develop understanding and expertise in planning and executing campaign at either single, joint or multi-agency levels. “The United Kingdom has assembled experts in this field for engineering the process, ” he added. Irabor expressed confidence that the training would facilitate discussions and debate to ensure that participants were provided with greater knowledge and understanding of the entire planning process. Earlier, Maj.-Gen. Adelokun Eyitayo, Director, Campaign Planning, Defence Headquarters, said that the course was unique, ”because it involves different security agencies of the government. Eyitayo said that while the BMATT would be providing the skeleton, the participants were expected to build on it. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)