By Olayinka Olawale The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), on Monday began the distribution of yam seedlings to 1,754 farmers in different parts of Lagos State. Mr Ibrahim Farinloye, South-West Zonal Coordinator, NEMA, announced this development to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) during the distribution exercise at the Lagos State Agricultural Development Authority, Oko-Oba, Agege. Farinloye said that the seedlings were being distributed to enhance and promote food security by President Muhammadu Buhari. He noted that the exercise was based on assessment carried out by NEMA and other federal government agencies where it was recommended that there is need for interventions in various angles. He said that the exercise was being carried out by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Department for Security Service and the Nigerian police. According to him, it is a programme meant to enhance and promote food security by the president. In 2020, came COVID-19 which affected farmers a lot. Based on assessment carried out by NEMA and other federal government agencies, it was recommended that there is the need for interventions in various angles. “In 2021, we were able to intervene with fertilisers and different farm inputs, maize, rice and cassava to farmers. “The latest one currently is the yam seedlings. As you are aware, the planting season for yam have started and that is why we are distributing it. “In Lagos state alone, we are distributing it to 1,754 farmers, each farmer will receive 150 to 200 seedlings. “Part of the seedling can be divided into two or three so this means that by the time we are getting result of this exercise, it is an assurance of sustainability of food security in the country. “The exercise is taking place across the whole states of the federation. We are still going to distribute support in livestock, heliciculture, commonly known as snail farming, fishing and animal husbandry to farmers in the next phase. “This is a continuous exercise, we are presently conducting assessment and verification of the livestock  exercise and immediately after the verification, the other aspect of animal husbandry, fishing, and heliciculture, we will continue. “We have started distribution this morning and hopefully, by Wednesday, we should conclude it. “We will taken the seedlings round the state,” he said. (NAN)