By Moji Eniola The Lagos State Government has begun publishing  details of convicted sex offenders as part of measures to check sexual violence and create public awareness of such misdeeds. Mrs Titilola Vivour-Adeniyi, Executive Secretary of Lagos State Domestic and Sexual Violence Agency (DSVA), made this known on Thursday in a statement to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). The DSVA said  the publication of the details of the convicted sex offenders was in keeping with Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s zero tolerance to all forms of domestic and sexual violence. The details to be published would include the name and picture of the sex offender, the nature of the offence as well as the duration of the sentence handed down by the court. The details of sex convicts would be published periodically on the state government’s website, (www.lagosstate.gov.ng), the website of the Ministry of Justice (https://lagosstatemoj.org) and the website of the DSVA (www.dsvrtlagos.org). According to Vivour-Adeniyi, these publications are in line with Section 42 of the Domestic and Sexual Violence Agency Law which empowers the DSVA to periodically publish details of sex convicts in Lagos. “Letters of advisory have been issued to local governments and traditional rulers of the communities where the convicts previously resided. “This measure is one amongst many deployed by the state government to end the culture of impunity and also serve as a deterrence to other sex offenders. “To report any case of domestic and sexual violence, residents  are to call the toll-free number, 08000333333 ,” she said. NAN reports that the DSVA had begun the process of publishing the names and details of convicted sex offenders in Lagos. The details of Basiru Obasekere convicted and sentenced on Dec. 2, and Gbenga Olasukanmi convicted and sentenced on Nov. 30,  had  so far been published. The duo were each sentenced to life imprisonment by Justice Abiola Soladoye of an Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court for the offence of defilement. (NAN)