By Sylvester Thompson Prof. Abdullahi Mustapha, the Director General (D-G), National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA), says Nigeria can end its reliance on importation of bioethanol with local production. Mustapha said this during an interview with newsmen in Abuja on Thursday, after making his presentation at the ongoing 2022 Science, Technology and Innovation (STI), Expo. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that Bioethanol is ethanol that is made from agricultural products, and which is used as a fuel supplement. Mustapha said NABDA had brought to the expo ground microorganisms such as yeast, that had been successfully isolated and which had economic value. “This yeast is very indigenous with thermal resistance that can be used in the fermentation process to produce bioethanol. “This is a great achievement considering how much is spent to import bioethanol into the country; there is no need to spend money on the importation of microorganisms. “The substrate used for the production of bioethanol is cassava and sugarcane, and all these are abundant in the country. “Nigeria can produce thousands or millions of litres of bioethanol per day day with this yeast that we have produced.’’ Speaking on the agency’s bio-fertiliser and insect repellant spray, Mustapha said the biofertiliser was unique and high yielding, while the chemical contained in the repellant was organic and harmless. The D-G further said the grass NABDA was producing for animal feed could be used for the national livestock transformation programme, and that the insect resistant maize project, together with the genetically modified cowpea and cotton, were mitigating food and employment crisis in the country. According to him, the agency in its quest to achieve its set goals, is collaborating with both the private and public sectors, Dr Clement Ebri, the Chairman, NABDA Board, described Mustapha’s presentation on `Biotechnology as an Innovative Tool for National Economic Growth”, as very brilliant. “I believe the outpouring of today’s event will contribute to ignite economic and social prosperity of our people. “We are bringing in the SMEs because we really need to have a trickledown effect to ensure that this whole biotechnology idea cuts across the whole country. “It is really a grassroot thing because if everyone starts doing it from the base, before long it will become more of a normal for our country. “With that, the growth will spread to all nooks and crannies,’’ Ebri said.