The German Agency for International Corporation (GIZ) is collaborating with the Lagos State Government to promote circular economy by boosting the activities of Micro Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs). The Chief Executive Officer, Nigeria Climate Innovation Centre, Mr Bankole Oloruntoba said that the strategic collaboration was to proffer innovative solutions to the various challenges facing Lagos State. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Oloruntoba made the assertion at the circular Lagos Challenge Grand Finale, held on Wednesday in Lagos. A circular economy is “a model of production and consumption, which involves sharing, leasing, reusing, repairing, refurbishing and recycling existing materials and products as long as possible”. NAN reports that the Circular project was launched by the Lagos State government with the support of the GIZ. Oloruntoba said about 1,000 applications were received in January from individuals who wanted to take part in the innovation challenge before being reduced to 12 after two stages of screening. The CEO added that the dynamism of Lagos also contributed to the fact that the innovation challenge is holding in Lagos, adding that whatever innovation carried out would serve as a model to other states. “The will and passion to demonstrate innovation led to the journey that brought us here. The aim is to create dynamic growth economy in Lagos. “We welcome you all and thank you for being here, working with us to find an alternative in solving problems in Lagos.” he said. Mrs Toyin Odutola, an Assistant Director who represented the Lagos State Commissioner for Environment, Mr Tunji Bello, said the state government would continue supporting innovative ideas. “Lagos State Government is interested in circularity of the state. We want to make sure all our recyclables are recycled and wastes effectively managed. “We implore anyone with innovative ideas to share with the state government which is always ready to make the environment more habitable.” she said. Jennifer Seydel,  representative of GIZ Nigeria said the Circular Lagos Challenge seeks to grow the market for circular economy businesses in ways that benefit producers, consumers, and communities across Lagos. She said circular businesses are also expected to reap the monetary benefits, stimulate local economic growth and create meaningful job opportunities. NAN gathered that Circular Lagos is organized as bottom up initiative, which focuses on experimenting with small-scale projects with a view to learn from practice. It also aimed at building institutional capabilities and develop an engaged and committed network of Circular Economy professionals in Lagos. For the challenge, circular businesses submitted innovative solutions that can fundamentally change the way people design, change and use the things they need. The winners of the most promising innovation undergo an incubation programme where they receive educational input and introduced to circular economy tools such as entrepreneurship, finance and policy. Their application is developed to pilotable prototypes of solutions. The challenge is guided by Circular market leaders that have urgent business needs and an interest to support entrepreneurs from ideation to project implementation. The sponsors include BASF Sweepsmart, Coca-Cola & Growing Businesses Foundation, Nigerian Breweries, Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance and NGN. The winners of the Circular Lagos Challenge will transition to LOOP Lab and receive support to develop their ideas into business plans to receive grant funding. (NAN)