By Angela Atabo Kalthum Foundation for Peace (KFP), a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), has urged women to take the bull by the horns by participating in politics ahead of the 2023 General Elections. Chairperson of KFP, Ummul-Khalthum Muhammad, made the call in a statement on Tuesday, in Abuja. Muhammad said the call became necessary as people across the globe celebrated the socio-economic, cultural, and political achievements of women on International Women’s Day. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme for this year’s International Women’s Day is: “Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow”. NAN also reports that this year’s campaign is represented by the #BreakTheBias# hashtag. It called on people to work towards a world that is equitable, inclusive, and free from bias and discrimination for women moving forward. Muhammad also urged women to participate effectively in the political processes building up to 2023 general elections for effective representation. She urged the Federal Government to put in place machinery that would ensure the participation of more women in politics. This, according to her, is to ensure gender equality, sustainability, and development of democracy in the country. “Politics cannot work without peace, hence, citizens’ approach to politics should be peace-oriented while eschewing violence in all forms.” Muhammad said that women constituted the greater percentage of the voting population in Nigeria, hence the need for government and stakeholders to involve them in decision-making bodies. She called on the National Assembly to reconsider all the gender bills that were rejected during the constitution amendment. “This is because women and girls should have a major role to play in governance to restore their pride and dignity and encourage societal norms and values for nation-building and development. “Women account for a substantial proportion of the agricultural labour force and perform the bulk of unpaid care and domestic work within families and households. “Women make significant contributions in terms of agricultural production, food security, nutrition, land and natural resource management, and building climate resilience. “The impacts of climate change, including access to productive and natural resources, amplify existing gender inequalities in rural areas,” she said. Muhammad, therefore, called for workable laws and policies that would help women attain their rightful place in the society for the development of the nation. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)