The contractor handling the Karshi-Apo Road project in the Federal Capital Territory has pledged to ensure its speedy completion to ease gridlock on the route.   Mr Azibaola Robert, Chairman/Managing Director of Kakatar CE, made this known in a statement on Tuesday in Abuja.   He said that the issues bordering the delay of the project had been resolved by the two parties.   “The real issues which the parties, client and contractor, have agreed on, and are working assiduously to overcome, are the twin issues of faulty design and poor rates.   “The issue relating to design has since been taken care of and being implemented on ground, while the issue of review of rates is being tackled with zeal by the authority,” he said.   The 13.25 kilometre Apo-Karshi road project was conceived as an alternative route to ease the gridlock experienced by workers and people driving to the capital city from the Mararaba-Nyanya axis.   The road is expected to decongest traffic on the Asokoro-Keffi road as people living in Nyanya, Karu, Jikwoyi, Gida Daya, and Orozo would have alternative and easy access to town when completed.   “The Federal Capital Territory Authority has graciously approved the review of the rates of the project for its immediate completion.   “This has now given us a renewed momentum and the impetus to expedite the completion of the project without further delay.   “It will be recalled that the Karshi – Apo road project was awarded to Kakatar CE in 2011 as an addendum to the Apo – Ara project at rates which were poor even at 2011.   “In 2022, these rates have become even so unappealing for a contractor to make any margin, and we appreciate the Honourable Minister of the FCT, Muhammad Musa Bello, the Honourable Minister of State, Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, and the Satellite Towns Development Department (STDD) for their understanding,” Robert said.   A source disclosed to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that payment had been made to the contractor by the FCTA in late February for the completion of the project that has reached 89 per cent completion.(NAN)