The Horasis-Nigeria Project is set to launch a one million membership-based community to strategically support local and global dominance of ‘’Designed in Nigeria’’ innovations. Dr Noel Akpata, the founder and National Coordinator of the Horasis-Nigeria Project, disclosed this in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Wednesday. He said the planned Innovative National Development Community (INDC) would identify for support, innovators actively involved in the creation of disruptive, low cost and market creating innovations. According to Dr Akpata, INDC will also initiate a national culture of shaping social innovation initiatives. He said selected innovators would be able to access the requisite support to produce world class prototypes in key locations around the world. The innovators, he added, would also be able to access training to create and sustain businesses built around their innovations and count on the community for early adoption of their creations. Akpata further said innovators would have access to regular live broadcast of their inventions and innovations to a national and global audience starting with the Presidential Innovation Investment Week billed for June. ” While service based innovators seem to be attracting a lot of local and global attention, product driven social innovators in Nigeria need an environment to develop and market their creations. ” They need resources to globally prototype their inventions “designed in Nigeria.” ” They need to acquire design and utility patents for their innovations to penetrate local, regional and global markets. ” They need a ready community of early adopters who will support their inventions with patronage, they need global platforms to launch their inventions to the world and further strengthen brand Nigeria. ” This strategic community would help with all of these. To build a Nation where we wouldn’t be scared of 10-year-olds beheading their neighbours for ritual money,we must now create a solid, well branded ,impactful, platform based community where the future will be nurtured,” Akpata said. He also said the innovation support community would jointly engage in world record setting social transformation initiatives in collaboration with key institutions like the World Social Innovation Forum. This, he said, was with a view to transforming healthcare facilities in Nigeria, support agricultural value chains and build the capacity of Nigerian entrepreneurs. He said INDC to be launched in June at the Inaugural Presidential Innovation Investment Week, a live televised event, would showcase impactful disruptive product,service as well as social innovations designed by Nigerians to the public and private sector. Nigerians, he said, can subscribe to join the Innovative National Development Community by www.drnoelakpata.com/indc. Akpata had co-led a delegation to meet with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa in Abuja to officially kick start the Horasis-Nigeria Project in October 2020. The meeting, which had in attendance key members of the Federal Executive Council, was also graced by Dr Shamsudeen Usman, the Chairman of Horasis in Nigeria and former Minister of National Planning. Also in attendance was the Chairman of Horasis, Dr Frank Jurgen Richter, Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum and President of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria as well as captains of Industry. Following the presidential endorsement of the Horasis-Nigeria Project and its socio-economic development initiatives a long-term memorandum of understanding was signed with the Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC). Akpata is the Founding Africa Director of Horasis and Advisor to the Horasis Visions Community based in Zurich, Switzerland. Horasis (Horasis.org) is a leading Swiss-based global think-tank which brings together global heads of governments to interface directly with global business leaders on issues shaping the globe. Akpata is also a member of the Global Steering Committee of the World Social Innovation Forum (wsif.world), a silicon valley-based global platform of social changemakers, social innovators, impact investors, policymakers and thought leaders in Government, Non-profit and Corporate sectors. NAN is the official media partner on the Horasis-Nigeria Project.