By Constance Imasuen Mr Sanusi Isa, a Federal Ministry of Power official, says government is working with the Nigeria  National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and other stakeholders to restore gas supply to power plants. Isa, the Special Assistant on Media to the Minister of Power, Mr Abubakar Aliyu, said in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja that this collaboration is also with security agencies. He said the increased vandalism of pipelines which supply gas to power plants has contributed to the epileptic power supply being experienced in the country presently. “We are where we are today also because of the increasing vandalism of pipelines that also supply gas to the power plants. “This too is being resolved in collaboration with the relevant agencies. NNPC and other gas suppliers are working relentlessly to restore gas supply for optimum power supply. “Government is doing everything, working with the relevant security agencies to stop the vandalism of pipelines,” Isa said. He added that the current energy crisis confronting some key sectors of the economy also contributed to the problems being faced in the power sector. “The current challenges of electricity supply in Nigeria are being resolved with the ongoing restoration of normal operations,” Isa assured. He said that  earlier in the week, the national grid suffered a decrease in electricity due to so many factors, adding that more of the power had been recovered and restored. “These challenges do not in any way indicate that the ongoing rehabilitation of the national grid by the government is not yielding positive result. “Routine maintenance of power generating plants had also contributed to the current power outages we are experiencing. “In spite of all the challenges, we are recording successes and the grid is being restored to full operation,” the Minister of Power’s aide said He appealed to Nigerians to show understanding and support government’s efforts as it strives to increase and stabilise electricity supply across the country.(NAN) (www.nannews.ng)