By Ebere Agozie The Global Islamic Impact Investment Forum (GIIIF) says its partnership with the Africa Islamic Economic Foundation (AFRIEF) will encourage attainment of UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Africa. Ms Sophia Innocenti, the Chief Executive Officer of GIIIF said this on Monday in a telephone chat with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). She said the purpose of the partnership was to open up African Impact Investment opportunities to Islamic economies all over the world. Innocenti said that it would also encourage a surge in investment in the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Africa. “AFRIEF will leverage on GIIIF’s international experience, network and strength to propel Africa’s rapid economic and social development to boost greater opportunities across the Continent. “We believe that the two organisations have complementary capabilities. “We are very excited at the power of combining these to create a full-service portfolio leveraging a larger pool of international and local talent and expertise,” she said. She said the relationship would create strong synergies both in impact investments and project development in Africa. According to her, this will help to accelerate AFRIEF’s mission of shifting the prevailing paradigm of economic development in Africa toward a new system that is ethical, place-based, inclusive, collaborative and ecologically sustainable. The GIIIF CEO said the partnership would also support AFRIEF’s capabilities to actualise its purpose of promoting access to ethical finance, and raising awareness of impact investment opportunities. Innocenti listed others to include lowering transaction costs and mitigating the risk of investments that generate positive social, economic and environmental impact. She urged the 54 countries in Africa to provide impact investors with genuine opportunity to make a difference and contribute to the formation of a new type of ethical economy. “This must have sustainability embedded at the root and lead to using the SDGs as a roadmap for the future. “With the next generation of entrepreneurs ready to leap, we at the GIIIF are enthusiastic by what we see and hope our network will be too,” she said. NAN reports that GIIIF’s first annual event will hold in London on September 2022. The event will bring together stakeholders from across the Muslim world to address the potential and importance of Impact and Impact investing in the sustainable development on the planet. NAN reports that AFRIEF is an independent development organisation that provides distinctive Islamic perspectives on economic development and social issues as a solution framework for Africa’s socio-economic development and environmental challenges. The GIIIF is an international peer to peer network dedicated to Islamic impact. (NAN) www.nannews.ng