By Sumaila Ogbaje   The Alumni Association of the National Institute (AANI) says the new Electoral Act provides new opportunity for free and fair elections in Nigeria. AANI President, retired Inspector-General of Police Mohammed Abubakar, said this at a news conference to announce the association’s 42nd Annual General Meeting (AGM) and Conference on Thursday in Abuja. Abubakar called on politicians to uphold global best practices and focus on the security, welfare, and economic prosperity of Nigerians above their personal ambitions and pecuniary interests as 2023 drew near. The former I-G called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to activate all the provisions of the law towards the conduct of free and fair general elections in 2023. He also urged broadminded and selfless individuals with capacity and courage to participate actively in the political process as part of efforts to rescue Nigeria. “We must de-emphasise money politics and come together to sponsor candidates that can pursue an agenda for the common good. “In this regard, AANI intends to convene a stakeholder meeting ahead of the 2023 election, to sensitise both politicians and electorates on the need to focus on issues that affects the lives of the people and the candidates with the capacity and pedigree to address them rather than selfish interests and material inducements. “Our association is always available to partner with government and all stakeholders to tackle challenges through promoting a comprehensive strategy that would stabilize the polity and promote a proactive agenda for the overall development of the country,’’ he said. Abubakar called on all to rededicate themselves to the Nigerian project and provide solutions to the prevailing situation in the country. He said the association was deeply concerned about the noticeable divisive tendencies among the components of the society. The ANNI president said armed violence, economic difficulties, and heated political space had created social tension, loss of lives and widespread fear over the future of the country. According to him, efforts by governments at various levels to tackle these challenges achieved only a marginal success because the challenges are deep rooted and require comprehensive, participatory, and proactive solutions. “In response to this AANI as a Think Tank is going to hold a national dialogue on national unity. “Therefore, it has been the tradition of our great association to meet once in a while to discuss issues that bordered on members’ welfare and critical national issues. “The AGM is a yearly gathering of all members to discuss critical national issues and the welfare of members and how to reposition the association further to contribute more to national development. “It is in line with this and the critical role of our association in national development, the theme for this year’s AGM is `Repositioning AANI for greater effectiveness,” he said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)