By Angela Atabo Connected Development (CODE), a Civil Society Organisation (CSO) has urged youths not to allow themselves to be used to heat up the polity but rather participate in politics. Mr Hamzat Lawal, the Chief Executive Officer, CODE, also the Founder of “Follow The Money” made the call in Abuja. Lawal spoke with newsmen shortly after a novelty match  between Hamzy United and CODE City to mark his 35th birthday. He urged youths to change the narrative by actively participating in politics and not sit to complain as usual. Lawal said that the football match was used as an avenue to create  the consciousness  to engage the youth because football had always been a game that united people. According to him, sometimes, even when there is conflict, or when there is a cause to celebrate, football is used because it doesn’t have religion or ethnicity. “Football talks about justice, equity, and peace and for me, these are the values I stand for. “Today, I am really excited that friends, well wishers and colleagues have come together to play a football match in my honour. “However, what this also means to me, is that they are playing for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) because they are playing for what the youth represent vibrancy, energy and tenacity. “As I transition into 35 years, this will also springboard into active participation in politics and decision-making, so this is just the beginning because, as young people, we can no longer remain on the sidelines.” Lawal said that advocacy alone would no longer suffice, adding that it was time to organise, mobilise and throw complaints away. He  said that it was now time to take decisions and consolidate on various efforts of youths . “We will inaugurate movements that are political, we would shape narratives and as we go into 2023 and as football has united us as young people, we will unite Nigerian youths. “We will also unite women and people with disability and vote for equity, justice but most importantly for the SDGs.” Lawal said that it was time to streamline other activities and be more deliberate on actions and find ways so that youths would actually fill leadership spaces . According to him, politics is not served à la carte, so young people must take actions and not wait to be given. He said that youths had the number, so they could use those number to their advantage. “Today, I have influence, power, credibility and I cannot have those and just sit down. “ I will use it to mobilise and to educate other young people on the need to see that we would be leaders that would invest in the future of Nigeria, and invest in the next generation of leaders.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the  novelty  match ended 8-3 in favour of Hamzy United . Highlights of the event was the presentation of medals to the players. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)