By Florence Onuegbu A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Into Skills for Care and Corporate Ltd., on Saturday called for improved elderly and child care services in Nigeria. Its Director, Ms Titilayo Shonubi, made the call in Lagos during the unveiling of Care Academy and the graduation of trainees for care services. Shonubi decried the lack of professional care services in Nigeria, and suggested that it was high time Nigeria and Nigerians adopted professional care services, especially for the elderly, so they could live more meaningful lives. She said that the firm, in collaboration with care organisations in the United Kingdom, were training Nigerians on acceptable care standard for the elderly and children. ”In Nigeria, we see keeping our elderly ones in a care home as a taboo, but that is wrong. It is high time we begin to see the advantages in doing so. ”Most people engage in different works; when they leave their elderly ones just sit at home bored, but when in a care home, they will relate with their peers on the same level and continue with activities they love to do. ”These activities will help to stimulate their brains and earn them more active years. ”I believe we need more of professional care homes in Nigeria to also ease the stress of caring for the children. That is why Into Skills for Care is training people to become professionals in this field. ”We train you on the 15 standard care certificate, which is the minimum certificate needed to work in the UK,” Shonubi said. Another Director in the company, Miss Tomi Banjoko, said that the firm was especially using the tier two visa opportunity given by the UK for healthcare professionals to give more Nigerians the opportunity to relocate to the UK. Banjoko said the firm was training interested persons to prepare them to become skilled care workers in the UK standard. She said that the training was to help Nigerians get into the UK easily by becoming care givers. According to her, the UK recently launched its tier two visa, where it is bringing in healthcare professionals from all over the world, because there is shortage of healthcare staff. ”We are not only training people, but we also help with other important aspects of the relocation. We work with about five care firms in the UK, looking to recruiting and link our trainees with them. ”These firms cater for whatever is needed for the relocation, including an initial three-year stay and work visa, one month accommodation, health insurance, among other benefits. ”The six weeks training is based on UK standard, so our trainees are familiar with questions when they attend interviews. ”We also work on their curriculum vitae, so they are relevant to the positions being applied for and are more attractive to prospective employers. ”About 32 persons were trained in the first batch, while the training for the second batch of 30 candidates is ongoing, and another class will start on April 16,” she said. One of the trainees, Ms Linda Papo, said that the training had exposed her to the care world, especially for the elderly. ”It was through this training that I was able to properly care for my mother, who had dementia and diabetes. I have had three placements so far, and now I can say I have a career in the care field,” Papo said. Another trainee, Mr Tobi Cole, said the training had showed him that he could make money through his personal traits of having passion for people. Cole said that care service entailed perseverance and empathy for people, looking beyond oneself and putting people first. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)