By Sumaila Ogbaje   The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), says it has set a target for sector commands to ensure reduction of road crashes by 15 per cent nationwide in 2022.   The Zonal Commanding officer in charge of FCT and Niger State, Assistant Corps Marshal (ACM) Shehu Mohammed, said this at the 1st Quarter Sector Operators’ Meeting/Retreat on Wednesday in Abuja.   Mohammed said the command was committed to achieving the goal and surpassing the target through adequate training of personnel on strategies for optimal performance.   He said the retreat was organised to train and retrain personnel to be abreast with the current reality of reducing road traffic crashes to the barest minimum.   “What we are doing today is to improve the knowledge of the personnel. What drives the economy today is knowledge and FRSC is also striving to be a knowledge-based organisation.   “The expectation is that they have added knowledge and they have equally heard our target reiterated several times.   “When they go back, they would use what they have learnt from the retreat to focus on those offences that may not make us to achieve the 15 per cent,” he said.   Mohammed also urged the unit commanders to do more of partnership and collaboration by adopting squad patrol, instead of unit patrol, to achieve effectiveness.   He said the squad patrol embraced enforcement, public awareness, sensitisation and advocacy, saying the strategy would help them to achieve the 15 per cent target.   The Commanding officer commended FCT command for outstanding performance in 2021, urging them to redouble effort towards achieving more this year.   He urged them to ensure effective management of command resources at their disposal for optimum performance.   Meanwhile, the FCT Sector Commander, FRSC, Mr Samuel Ochi, said the retreat was convened to appraise the performance of the sector in the previous year and strategise for the current year.   Ochi assured the zonal commanding officer of the sector’s readiness and commitment to working with him to actualise the 15 per cent target.   Similarly, the Unit Commander, Nyanya, Assistant Corp Commander, Sabena Musa, said the retreat would reposition the commanders for optimal performance in their efforts to keep the roads safe and free from crashes.   Musa said the retreat was an eye-opener to think outside the box to ensure that goals were met and to be able to manage the available scarce resources to ensure that the roads were free of traffic.   On his part, Unit Commander, R7.18 Lugbe FCT, Assistant Corp Commander Osondu Oheari, said the retreat was a special platform for commanders to do stocktaking and to rejig their consciousness as commanding officers in the FCT.   Oheari said the retreat would help them to put in their best and widened their horizon in discharging their duties. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)