By Ruth Oketunde The Society of Women Accountants of Nigeria (SWAN), Abuja Chapter, has called for 50 per cent affirmative action for women in the coming political dispensation. Ms Mbang Esu, Chairperson of the association, made the call on Tuesday in Abuja, on the sidelines of activities to commemorate this year’s International Women’s Day (IWD), celebrated annually March 8. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the association took its celebration to the Garki International Market, Abuja. NAN also reports that this year’s celebration is under the hashtag #Break the Bias, and the theme; “Gender Equality Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow. “ Esu maintained that it was important to encourage positive change for women and advocate for a world free of bias, stereotypes and discrimination of all kinds. She urged women to forge ahead in their various areas of professions and continue to “break the glass ceiling.“ “We are joining our voice with all the 36 state chapters, and with one voice we are saying that Nigerian women be given their own opportunities. “We need our equal rights, we are no longer advocating for 35 per cent again, we want 50 per cent, and we demand our place of pride. “It is time for women voices to be heard, if a woman is in leadership position, it brings the needed change. “We are mothers and if we can take care of the home fronts, we can take care of the country. “So we should be given leadership positions so that we can bring the needed change we need in the country,” she said. Esu also called on women to get their permanent voters card (PVC), and come out en masse to support any woman that would be contesting in the 2023 General Elections. Mrs Monica Nosike, Vice Chairperson, SWAN Abuja Chapter, called on the National Assembly to revisit the gender bills recently rejected by the National Assembly, in order to reduce under-representation of women in political offices. “We are lending our voices in line with the theme for the global celebration to advice our National Assembly members to please go back to the drawing board and say yes to all bills concerning women that they have said no to. “I also want to encourage every woman to support any woman contesting any elective position in the 2023 elections, let us use our numbers to support women,” she said. On her part, Mrs Ngozi Achor, a trader, appreciated the team for bringing the campaign to the market. “With what we have learnt, we are ready to support any woman with integrity that comes out to contest for any position. “Any woman that is ready to move this country forward, be it for president, governor or any voting position,” Achor said. NAN reports that the highpoint of the celebration was the presentation of gifts to the market women. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)