By Sumaila Ogbaje   The Nigerian Army has urged officers and soldiers to be committed to training to enhance their physical fitness, preparedness and combat readiness in the discharge of their constitutional duties. The Chief of Training (Army), Maj.-Gen. Abdulsalami Ibrahim, made the call at the opening of the Maiden Strategic and Leadership Training Workshop of the Directorate of Army Physical Training (DAPT), on Wednesday in Abuja. Ibrahim, who was represented by the Deputy Chief of Training, Maj.-Gen. Oluyemi Olatoye, commended the directorate for the  inputs into the training activities for 2022. He said that DAPT had in the last one year, taken steps to galvanise the conduct of tactical level fitness schedules for Nigerian army personnel. He added that the directorate also conducted re-orientation of junior commanders and soldiers, on the need for integrity in the conduct of physical efficiency tests, physical fitness assessment and other fitness sporting competitions. “I am, therefore, glad to state that the renewed efforts on reinvigorating physical fitness training has improved the state of fitness of our troops and reduced complaints about fitness level in the Nigerian army. “I must also acknowledge the successes of Nigerian Army sportsmen and teams under the tutelage of the Directorate of Army Physical Training,“ he said. He said that the victory in the Inter Services Games 2021, the first position in the Military category and the overall Second runner up Trophy in the National Open Swimming Championship 2021 among others, were gratifying. Ibrahim also commended the Directorate for undertaking in constructive engagements with relevant stakeholders towards capacity building and repositioning for greater performance. He said the drive had led to the conceptualisation of the workshop with the theme “Capacity Building of Directorate of Army Physical Training’s Leadership for Fitness Training Towards Combat Effectiveness in a Joint Environment”. He said the workshop was in line with the COAS’ vision, “to have a Professional Nigerian Army ready to accomplish assigned missions within a joint environment in the defence of Nigeria”. The Acting Director, DAPT, Brig.-Gen. Olawale Fawole, said the directorate had made tremendous efforts in the last one year to position itself through various innovations on fitness training. Fawole said that it had worked towards enhancing the capacity of its officers and soldiers through programmes and formal learning experiences on various courses both local and abroad. According to him, “it was with a view to widening our collective knowledge base, towards strengthening our capacity to deliver on our primary roles and responsibilities, as part of the efforts at meeting the expectations of the COAS. “It is gladdening to observe, that at the First Quarter 2022 COAS Conference, the issue of fitness was not one of the challenges reported from the various theatres of operations across the country. “Thus, indicating that the team effort on fitness training was beginning to produce the desired results. “Notwithstanding the foregoing, there are still a lot of grounds for us to cover in for the physical training. “The renewed diligence by officers and soldiers of the DAPT on the conduct, evaluation and assessment of physical efficiency at the tactical level would require a drive at the critical strategic level of leadership. “This drive could only be properly defined and impactful with a symbiosis of ideas and constructive engagement with critical stakeholders across the spectrum of training,” he said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)