By Augusta Uchediunor The World Health Organisation (WHO) has released new guidelines on abortion care in a bid to protect the health of women and girls across the world. The global health body said in a statement on Wednesday that the new guidelines would also help prevent over 25 million unsafe abortions that currently occur each year. According to WHO, based on the latest scientific evidence, these consolidated guidelines bring together over 50 recommendations spanning clinical practice, health service delivery, and legal and policy interventions to support quality abortion care. Craig Lissner, Acting Director for Sexual and Reproductive Health and Research at WHO, said: “Nearly every death and injury that results from unsafe abortion is entirely preventable. “That’s why we recommend women and girls can access abortion and family planning services when they need them’.’ WHO said that when abortion is carried out using a method recommended by WHO, appropriate to the duration of the pregnancy and assisted by someone with the necessary information or skills, it is a simple and extremely safe procedure. However, it noted that only around half of all abortions take place under such conditions, with unsafe abortions causing around 39,000 deaths every year and resulting in millions more women hospitalized with complications. “Most of these deaths are concentrated in lower-income countries – with over 60 per cent in Africa and 30 per cent in Asia – and among those living in the most vulnerable situations. “The guideline includes recommendations on many simple primary care level interventions that improve the quality of abortion care provided to women and girls. “These include task sharing by a wider range of health workers; ensuring access to medical abortion pills, which mean more women can obtain safe abortion services, and making sure that accurate information on care is available to all those who need it,” WHO said. For the first time, the guidelines also include recommendations for use where appropriate of telemedicine, which helped support access to abortion and family planning services during the COVID-19 pandemic. The guidelines also highlighted the need to remove unnecessary policy barriers that facilitate access to safe abortion. “Alongside the clinical and service delivery recommendations, the guidelines recommend removing medically unnecessary policy barriers to safe abortion. “Such as criminalisation, mandatory waiting times, the requirement that approval must be given by other people (e.g., partners or family members) or institutions, and limits on when during pregnancy an abortion can take place. “Such barriers can lead to critical delays in accessing treatment and put women and girls at greater risk of unsafe abortion, stigmatisation, and health complications. “It can also increase disruptions to education and their ability to work,’’ the WHO said. The statement quoted Dr Bela Ganatra, Head of WHO’s Prevention of Unsafe Abortion Unit, as saying, “it is vital that an abortion is safe in medical terms. “But that’s not enough on its own. “As with any other health services, abortion care needs to respect the decisions and needs of women and girls, ensuring that they are treated with dignity and without stigma or judgment. “No one should be exposed to abuse or harms like being reported to the police or put in jail because they have sought or provided abortion care. “The evidence is clear – if you want to prevent unintended pregnancies and unsafe abortions, you need to provide women and girls with a comprehensive package of sexuality education, accurate family planning information and services, and access to quality abortion care.’’ WHO said it would support countries to implement these new guidelines and strengthen national policies and programmes related to contraception, family planning and abortion services, helping them provide the highest standard of care for women and girls. (NAN)