By Lucy Ogalue A former Minister of Women Affairs, Hajiya Zainab Maina, has reiterated the need for women to be included in politics and governance as key for ensuring a sustainable future. Maina, in a statement to mark the 2022 International Women’s Day, on Tuesday in Abuja, said women in Nigeria were greatly marginalised. She said this year’s theme “Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow’’ was apt but unfortunately not practiced in Nigeria. “Without gender equality there can be no sustainable tomorrow. As the stronger gender we perform far higher natural roles that men can ever perform. “Yet, in politics and governance we are excluded. Therefore, today I cross my two hands across my heart to join other women all over the country to say “Please Break the Bias”. “Nation building is a task that requires the contributions of all citizens regardless of their gender,’’ she said. Maina said that to perpetually shut out a significant population of a country from political participation and governance processes was to deny the country full potential for a sustainable tomorrow. “Women suffer deprivations in many spheres of our national life, yet when we ask for equity, we are pushed back by an entrenched patriarchy. “We are not asking for equality because we want to take over the roles of our men, we are asking for gender equality because that is the only guarantee of a sustainable tomorrow,’’ she said. According to her, the recent position taken by members of the National Assembly in the constitutional amendment process sends a bold signal to Nigerian women to wake up and organise affairs. The former minister said it was time for the Nigerian women to rise and challenge the status quo. She said: “since politics is a game of numbers, we must come together and use our superior numbers to demand for a fairer deal. “The minimum we should demand for in the 2023 election circle is the Vice-President of the Federal republic of Nigeria and half the candidates in all elective positions. With our numbers we can do it,’’ she said. Maina, therefore, called on all Nigerian women to rise up to the challenge of ending the bias and enthroning equity in politics and governance. “I challenge Nigerian men to see reason in ensuring equity and inclusion in our national life; this is indeed a task for all of us; Happy International Women’s Day 2022,’’she added. (NAN)