By Stephen Adeleye Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi has felicitated former President Olusegun Obasanjo on his 85th birthday. Bello in a statement by his spokesperson, Onogwu Muhammed, on Saturday in Lokoja, described Obasanjo as one with an uncommon wisdom whose exemplary leadership had brought remarkable impact to the country, Africa and across the globe. He lauded Obasanjo on his recent interventions in the unrest in the Tigray region of Ethiopia. “Happy birthday Your Excellency; in the course of the decades as a Military General, Head of State and the first democratically elected president at the return of democracy in 1999, you have made extraordinary memories and woven your own unique story into the Nigerian narrative. “You have exhibited uncommon wisdom, remarkable vision, and exemplary leadership to deserve our greatest respect for the lives you have touched and the stability you brought to our country during your stewardship as the Head of State and president respectively. “Though you renounced participation in partisan politics, you do not hold back advisories on matters of governance,” he said. According to him, as a true Pan-Africanist, his peace and mediation roles in other African countries including your recent intervention in the unrest in Tigray region of Ethiopia is a clear testament of your love for peace and stability on the African continent. Bello stated that Obasanjo had remained a source of encouragement, especially, in his pursuit of national peace. “During a meeting with you last year, I could not but marvel at your ageless wisdom and passionate love for the country. “We had a fruitful discussion on insecurity and national development and every word from you conveyed yoyr optimism that Nigeria will get to the promised land. “You also encouraged me to sustain the effort in providing security for Kogi, and that the fight against insecurity should have everybody on board”, the governor said. Bello then prayed that God should continue to protect the elder statesman with good health and long life. Obasanjo, a former military Head of State and a two-term President under civilian rule, clocked 85 on Saturday. (NAN) (www.nanews.ng)