By Joan Nwagwu The International Labour Organisation(ILO) has elected Gilbert Houngbo from Togo as the new Director-General. Houngbo was elected by the ILO’s Governing Body, comprising representatives of governments, workers and employers, at a meeting in Geneva, Switzerland on Friday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Houngbo defeated five other candidates to win the post. Other candidates were: Kang Kyung-wha, Republic of Korea, Mthunzi Mdwaba, South Africa, Muriel Pénicaud, France and Greg Vines from Australia. The new ILO boss would be the 11th Director-General of the ILO, and the first African to hold the post. Houngbo is currently President of the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). Speaking after his election, Houngbo commended all for the opportunity. ”Although my origins are African, but my perspective is global. In an age, unfortunately of dividedness, my commitment to be a unifying Director-General stands firm. “I will be the Director-General of nobody and the Director-General of everybody. “Governments, employers and workers alike, from all regions across the world, can and should rely on my total readiness to represent and advocate the views of all tripartite constituents of the organisation,’’he said. He assured all that he was committed to represent the voices of those who rely on the ILO. ”I’m thinking about the four billion people around the world who do not have access to social protection. “I’m thinking about the 200-plus million of women and men who face unemployment. The 160 million children in child labour. “The 1.6 billion people in the informal sector, the enterprises, particularly the small and medium sized enterprises that are facing supply chain disruption or closure due to crises’ including the pandemic, climate change and armed conflict. “I’m thinking about the women and men who face discrimination, violence and harassment in the workplace and elsewhere. “These are all expressions of unacceptable social injustice that we are morally if not legally bound to address, “he said. The new D-G’s five-year term will begin on Oct. 1, while the current D-G, Guy Ryder, from the United Kingdom, has held the office since 2012. The ILO’s governing body is composed of 56 titular members (28 governments, 14 employers and 14 workers) and 66 deputy members (28 governments, 19 employers and 19 workers). The employer and worker members are elected in their individual capacity. The ILO is the oldest specialised agency of the UN. It was founded in 1919 and has a mandate to promote decent work for all. It has 187 member states.