By Olasunkanmi Onifade The Francis and Felicia Umenyi Foundation (FFUF), has called for the right to quality healthcare in the Patient Bill Right (PBR) to be extended to vulnerable population that does not have access. This is contained in a communique signed by the Executive Director of the Foundation, Dr Chito Nwana, at the end of a memorial lecture held in Abuja. According to the communique, it emphasized that the PBR should be made a law so that social programmes or projects can be created to ensure that the vulnerable population has access to healthcare. It stated that quality healthcare is not a privilege, but critical for everyone regardless of age, gender, race, religion, socio-economic status and/or level of Education. “The right to health is articulated by the World Health Organization (WHO) as being “the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health. “In Nigeria, the Patient Bill of Right (PBR) as produced by the FCCPC enumerates a list of guarantees for those receiving medical care. “While the PBR guarantees patient rights to quality healthcare, many interpreted this to referring to quality of care at the facility only,” the communique said. It stated that there seemed to be a gap as it did not properly capture the vulnerable population who do not have access to healthcare facilities, adding that their right to quality healthcare was violated. The communique said the forum addressed national indices in Healthcare, saying it is poor and way below global standards and expectations. “That access to quality and affordable medical care is sacrosanct for all without prejudice to circumstances. “There is a need to review the PBR or at least provide expatiating addendum to recognising the needs of the vulnerable population. “These amendments/additions to the PBR should accommodate the challenges of health facilities, including Public and private, in providing these facilities,” it said. The communique also said there was the need for improved access to health facilities, adding that the health insurance schemes, both at the national and state levels, offer a veritable tool to expanding coverage to healthcare. “Health insurance schemes need to be properly marketed through enlightenment programmes to enable private persons and entities to participate. “More funding should be provided for community based healthcare. ”Communities at all levels – town union, churches as well as family union should strengthen the ownership of healthcare,” it stated. The communique said there was the need to promote the ‘’adopt – a Public Healthcare Center-‘’ Programme for corporate and NGO adaptation. It also stated there was the need for legislation to guarantee that the rights of patients are justiciable. The Francis and Felicia Umenyi Foundation is guided by the vision of a healthy and educated society in which all individual access to healthcare and education are not limited by poverty or location. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)