By Angela Atabo Christian Aid, an NGO, has called for the empowerment of women through rights to quality education, health, and governance. The NGO also called for an end to all forms of biases and discrimination against them. Dr Ojobo Atuluku, International Programme Director, Christian Aid, made the call on Tuesday in Abuja while speaking with newsmen on the ocassion of the 2022 International Women’s Day. The theme of the celebration was: “Gender Equality Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow”. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that this year’s campaign is represented by the #BreakTheBias hash tag, focusing on equitable, inclusive and free space for women across the world. Atuluku said that women were facing a lot of challenges in all sectors, but lack the voice to speak out. She said it was important to work with leaders to change the system through effective policies that would enable women to excel and overcome all forms of injustices. “We need women in all spheres of lives in all parts of the country, rural or urban. “There is the need to know what it means to have female representatives at the National Assembly, the states assembly, in executive offices, in any public space. “It is not an agitation of a select group of women in Nigeria, it is an agitation of the Nigerian people that we need to see more women in public offices and in public space. “We need to know that the cultural barriers that we always revert to that women should not be seen in public space in this modern times of today’s Nigeria is something that will detract us from developing the way we should. “This is because we are wasting the capabilities of half of our population, gender equality is possible without making men be the losers, it is for national development.’’ Atuluku said that the rejection of the pro-women bills by the National Assembly showed that a lot still needed to be done to break the biases against women. She advised women not to have a victim mentality even if they were victims of discrimination and injustice. “Keep your shoulders high to continue to achieve merit, be focused and determined to achieve whatever feat you want by rising above your experiences.” She also encouraged women in politics to support each other and mentor younger ones to rise, regardless of political affiliation. Atuluku said women should learn to build trust within themselves and look out for each other’s interest. According to her, there is nothing to celebrate yet in terms of gender equality as women are still faced with challenges of injustice and violence. “So until we are able to ensure that there is equality of rights, until we are able to ensure that there is justice for women, for girls, I think  there is nothing to celebrate without having  successful women in different spaces,’’ she added. According to Atuluku, Christian Aid is working to expose poverty and help in practical ways to end it. “We are focused on working with power holders to ensure that the framework is changed so that there’s equality of rights, equality of access. “Gender justice is possible in Nigeria. We just need to let go of the hang ups we have that men will be displaced if women achieve gender justice. “My message to Nigerians, male and female, is to look at the women around them and try to understand their lives from their perspective in our Nigerian society. “Try to live a space and chat with them about their experiences as women and see whether their agitation is reasonable or not before you come to any conclusion.’’( NAN) (www.nannews.ng)