By Chimezie Anaso The Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has created an additional area and regional office in Anambra to expand and deepen its operations in the state. Mr Olanrewaju Onipede, Coordinator, SON in Anambra, stated this during the presentation of the Mandatory Certificate and Assessment Programme (MANCAP) to deserving firms in Awka on Tuesday. Onipede who is in charge of Awka Office (Anambra 1) said the new area office otherwise known as Anambra 2 was situated in Nnewi while the regional office was also in Awka. He said the move was to increase the reach of the agency to the firms across the state and ease the rigours encountered in the bid to access SON services and processes. “The management of SON has approved a new structure in Anambra, we now have two state offices in Awka and Nnewi and a state regional office also in Awka. “This is to bring us closer to our clients and reduce transport time and other inconveniences, it is to increase general efficiency,’’ he said. The coordinator said the organisation had developed a concessionary policy to encourage genuine cottage businesses and enable them regularise their operations. Onipede warned that production, importation and distribution of unwholesome or unapproved products remained a serious offence, adding that culprits would be fished out and prosecuted. He congratulated the nine firms which got new MANCAP certificates for 20 products and four others who got revalidation for seven products for passing the approval processes. The coordinator said the certificate has duration of three years during which the products would be monitored and that firms stand to have them revalidated if they consistently comply with standard or be withdrawn for non-compliance. “Today we issued MANCAP certificates to nine companies for 20 products and revalidated seven products in four companies. “They submitted themselves to the processes and were found worthy, they have been consistent and it is impressive to know that we have not had cause to withdraw any certificate. “That is because they are conscious of our regular visits, surveillance, monitoring and analysis which are most times unannounced,’’ he said.(NAN)