By Fortune Abang The Aides Small Project International (ASPI), an International Non-Governmental Organisation(NGO), has pledged to support Nigeria in boosting healthcare services and address challenges in the post COVID-19 era. Mr Moses Owharo, the President/CEO of ASPI, with its headquarters in Ghana, said this on Friday at a presentation to partner with the Federal Ministry of Health in Abuja. Owharo, while explaining that ASPI had carried out several health intervention programmes in the past,  assured to partner with the ministry to do more in Nigeria. According  to him, in 2021, ASPI carried out Tuberculosis prevention and treatment, Malaria prevention and treatment projects, HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment projects with GAC and Global fund. “Nutrition project, WFP and microfinance agriculture; ASPI have made an achievement on the Malaria programme in Ketu District valued at 1.082million dollars with 52, 000 beneficiaries including farmers.” He said this also included 293-communities, three Municipals and three districts in five regions of Ghana. “Given the volume, impact and complexity of these offerings, ASPI has decided to partner with relevant stakeholders, to address hospital infrastructural deficit in Nigeria. “Today, a presentation to partner with the ministry is made; ASPI preparedness and response objective is to work with and support the ministry and the nine states in the Niger Delta region.’’ He added that measures would be put in place to work closely with other relevant stakeholders in ensuring availability of testing kits, provision of ventilators and medical consumable supplies. Others, he said to include technical training of health workers in the short run and the main health infrastructural development needed in the area of health facility rehabilitation, re-equipment with medical equipment in the long run. He disclosed that ASPI had empowered people with knowledge and resources necessary to not only seek, and receive better healthcare, but also influence better health service quality, leading to higher levels of self-sufficiency. He also said that ASPI operates in two areas of social service sector, microfinance, healthcare education, agricultural and humanitarian support through her integrated finance and healthcare services, Responding, Dr Noah Andrew, Head, Department of Hospital Services in the ministry, commended ASPI for the partnership initiative, while harping on synergy and collaboration with the National Primary Health Care Development Agency. Andrew, also presiding chairman at the event promised to recommend to the management of the ministry that another presentation be made to the National Primary Health Care Development Agency on ASPI’s partnership with the ministry. “COVID-19 pandemic has shown a particular light on the vulnerabilities of our infrastructure, especially in healthcare already under demand and challenging future funding scenarios. “This has accelerated the need to explore new models of infrastructure, planning investment design, operational and delivery,” Andrew said. ASPI seeks to improve health, livelihood and create economic opportunities for women and their families, as well as reduce preventable child and maternal morbidity and mortality rate. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)