By Aderogba George The Network Against Child Trafficking, Abuse and Labour (NACTAL) on Tuesday began a three-day day retreat for participants drawn from the 36 states of the federation and FCT, on operational productivity, policies and legislative framework. The retreat holding in Keffi, Nasarawa State, is supported by the International and Ibero-American Foundation for Administration and Public Policy (FIIAPP), from Tuesday, March 1, till Thursday, March 3. FIIAPP, a Spanish public foundation is funded by the European Union (EU) and is anchoring the project in Nigeria titled: ‘Action Against Trafficking in Persons and Smuggling of Migrants (A-TIPSOM)’. In his welcome address, NACTAL President, Mr Abdulganiyu Abubakar, stated that the retreat would centre on how to reposition the country against human trafficking. He added that the retreat would look into what NACTAL had done right in the past, what is left for the organisation to be done and every other loopholes, all in the aim of enhancing operations. “An holistic review of where we are coming from, where we ought to be and where we are going. FIIAPP, who is the organiser and sponsor of this programme, it is one of our major partners.” On his part, representative of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), Mr Gav Festus, commended NACTAL for being an icon in the fight against human trafficking in the country. Festus said that NACTAL is basically supporting the work of NAPTIP, adding that most of its activities are in tandem with NAPTIP mandate. Festus said that Nigerians must continue to be vigilant about the antics of human traffickers, adding that their antics continue to change on daily basis. He further said that Nigerians must remain vigilant, they must be conscious of fantastic offers meant to lure them into all kind of forced labour, adding that they are all lies and deceptive. “Although the economy of the world has been passing through many challenges, this is not peculiar to Nigeria alone, there is no free money or free gift anywhere. “We must continuously to be cautious,  those offers are seen as basic lies, deceptions to take us away and exploit us,” he said. Similarly, Mrs Veronica Usman, NACTAL Board Chairman, commended NAPTIP and NACTAL on the awareness they are creating on human trafficking. Usman, who was also at the programme representing Mrs Titi Atiku, the founder, Women Trafficking and Child Labour Eradication (WOTCLEF), stated that the awareness should be high since the menace was increasing. Mr Bello Omotosho, who represented the A-TIPSOM, said the retreat was organised to build the capacity of NACTAL members and enhance their productivity. (www.nannews.ng)