By Sumaila Ogbaje The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, has reiterated his commitment to tackling the challenge of accommodation and other infrastructures across the Nigerian Army Barracks. The Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, in a statement said that Yahaya gave the assurance while inaugurating projects within 81 Division Nigerian Army in Lagos on Thursday. The COAS said that the Nigerian army had sustained effort towards boosting troops’ morale and well-being through provision of conducive working and living conditions. He also pledged to continue to provide intervention projects in the areas of barracks renovation and construction, procurement of new platforms and rehabilitation of hospitals for effective medical care. Yahaya also assured troops that army headquarters would continue to upgrade weapon systems and equip its training institutions to effectively actualise his vision. He said his vision was to have “a professional Nigerian army ready to accomplish assigned missions within a joint environment in defence of Nigeria”. The army chief also reiterated the commitment of the army to tackle contemporary and emerging security challenges in the country. He, however, charged all personnel to continuously strive to protect the citizenry and critical assets within their respective areas of responsibility. “You must be selfless in the conduct of operations to bring succour to those in despair as you discharge your constitutional responsibilities to the nation,” he said. The COAS urged the officers and men to justify the resources expended to improve their well-being by remaining committed professionally and ensuring maintenance of infrastructure in their Barracks. He expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for his continuous support to the Nigerian army which had made the improvement of personnel welfare possible. He also commended the General Officer Commanding 81 Division and Corps Commanders, for providing necessary oversight on the projects during construction. The newly-inaugurated projects include Transit Accommodation for Finance and the Supply and Transport Corps, Students’ Hostel for Ordinance School and three newly-built official residences for Regimental Sergeant Majors (RSM) of the Division. Others are Army Engineers and Signals Corps, accommodation for the Commander and Deputy Commander of Command Finance Office at Apapa. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)