By Sumaila Ogbaje The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, has assured Nigerians that the Army will provide conducive and secure environment for the conduct of the 2023 general elections. Yahaya gave the assurance at the closing of the Chief of Army Staff First Quarter Conference 2022 on Thursday in Abuja. He urged army personnel to remain professional and glaringly apolitical as they carry out their constitutional duties of maintaining peace and security in aid of civil authority across the country. He also charged them to continue to uphold human right principles in the conduct of operations in tandem with the constitution and rules of engagement. “This is particularly important as the activities outlined in the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) calendar gathers steam. “In line with our constitutional responsibilities, we will continue to provide conducive and secured environment for the conduct of the general elections through Operation Safe Conduct in aid to civil authority,” he said. The COAS also tasked all commanders to continue to educate and inculcate in the troops on the ‘core values’ of the Nigerian army which among others include, courage, integrity, selfless service and respect for others. He said the aspect of ‘courage’ was extensively discussed during the conference as fundamental requirement in the development and maintenance of the ‘warrior ethos’ which is key to accomplishment of kinetic missions. According to him, the concept and content of the ‘warrior ethos’ should be taken seriously in all aspects of their training. Yahaya said the successes recorded so far in all operations could be attributed to the renewed zeal by the troops to decisively confront all forms of security threats. He urge them to sustain the dogged posture, warning that no untoward conduct or misdemeanou89⁹u0plr would be tolerated from any quarters. The COAS also urged commanders to exercise effective control of arms and ammunition placed under their care and spare no efforts at thwarting any forms of arms spread in their domains. He said the nefarious activities of violent criminals being confronted in the ongoing operations had direct connection with proliferation of Small Arms and Light Weapons (SALW) in unauthourised hands. He commended troops on their efforts and sacrifices in all theatres of operations, adding that synergy with sister services and all security agencies in their joint operations should be sustained and improved. “Additionally, I am pleased to note the increasing support extended to our troops by our host communities and Nigerians at large. “This is very much in line with my vision to improve our general cohesiveness in joint operations. “I therefore enjoin all Commanders to constantly leverage on our improved relations with the civil populace and our host communities and sensitize troops accordingly in that regard,” he said. The army chief enjoined commanders to sustain the high level of professionalism so far exhibited in employment of platforms in the field to ensure optimal performance. According to him, it is a Command responsibility to ensure proper deployment, employment and maintenance of all equipment and facilities. He said the conference had provided them the opportunity to interact and deliberate on the affairs of the army such as ongoing operations, training, logistics and the welfare of personnel. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that COAS conference had in attendance the principal staff officers of the Army and Defence Headquarters, Chief of Defence Intelligence, Commandant of the Nigeria Defence Academy and Commandants of Army Institutions. Others in attendance are the General Officers Commanding (GOCs) and field commanders. (NAN)