League Georgina Adegbie Three states have pulled out of the 2021 National Handball Division One League holding in Edo, Secretary General, Handball Federation of Nigeria (HFN), Mohammed Maigidansama, has said. Maigidansama told The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Abuja that the state teams were Cross Rivers, Delta Force and Bayelsa United. “I believe that in the next edition they will do the necessary things on time to participate in the championship. “They (three teams) will definitely have other reasons for not participating in the championship,” the secretary general said. He said the championship was going on smoothly, adding that the Edo Government had provided an enabling environment for all the participating clubs and officials. NAN reports that winners in the male and female categories will automatically get promotional ticket to be part of the Prudent Energy Handball Premier League. The 2021 National Division One League was to hold in Nov. 2021, but was postponed after the Edo government asked for more time to complete preparations. The state had entered into a four-year deal to host and sponsor the league. The male teams participating in the league are: Edo Dynamos, Corrections Boys, Owena Kings, Benue Buffaloes, Borno Spiders, Suleja Shooters, Kwara United and Mindscope Academy The female teams are Sokoto Rima, Benue Queens, Delta Force, Suleja Shooters, Abia Valliants and Police Machine. The standing table of Match Day 5 on Wednesday placed Edo Dynamos first with 12 points; Correction Boys, 9 points; Owena, 9 points; Benue fourth with nine points; Borno Spiders fifth with three points. Others include Suleja Shooters, sixth with three points, Kwara United on seventh position with three points and Mindscope Academy with zero point. In the female category, Sokoto Rima is first on the table with 12 points, Benue Queens second with seven points, Delta Force third with six points. Suleja Shooters occupies the fourth position with five points, followed by Abia Valliants on fifth position with three points and Police Machine at the rear with with one point. The championship which started on Feb. 26 is expected to end on March 5. (NAN)