By Philip Yatai The Nigeria Health Watch, a Non-Governmental Organisation, on Wednesday appealed to Kaduna State Government to provide adequate Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) facilities in Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) across the state.   The organisation’s Director of Programmes, Dr Kemisola Agbaoye, made the call in Kaduna, during the presentation of findings from the assessment of WASH services in primary healthcare centers in the state.   Agbaoye explained that the assessment was conducted to provide evidence for action that would drive improvement in the quality of service delivery in primary healthcare centres in the state.   According to her, the primary needs of most of the PHCs assessed centred on availability and constant supply of portable water, as well as adequate human and non-human resources to keep the health facility clean.   She added that the secondary needs centred around the expansion and provision of essential health facility infrastructure like buildings, beds, ambulances, solar system, as well as salary increment.   She explained that the assessment was conducted in 39 PHCs located in rural and urban areas across the 23 local government areas of the state.   She said that the findings indicated that 84 per cent of the health facilities used water from boreholes, adding however, that 50 per cent of the water was sourced outside the facility.   Agbaoye also said that 72 per cent of the water was not being treated before use in the facilities.   On toilet facilities, the director said 95 per cent of the facilities were equipped with toilet facilities, 81 per cent of them gender sensitive.   She added that 61 per cent of the toilet facilities had water supply, while 39 per cent did not have same, just as 46 per cent of the PHCs were without dedicated cleaners.   “We are happy to find that 85 per cent of the health facilities have handwashing points, with 67 per cent of them mandating prompt hand washing in the facility.   “Also, 90 per cent of the health centres have waste disposal facilities, with 64 per cent of infectious waste disposed within the facilities and 36 per cent outside the facilities.   “Further, 85 per cent of the facilities have infection prevention and control protocol,” she said.   Also speaking, Community Engagement Manager of the NGO, Mr Bashir Abubakar, commended Kaduna state government for its efforts so far, but added that much needed to be done to improve the quality of WASH services.   According to him, the key goal of the assessment is to determine the availability and functionality of WASH services and facilities in primary healthcare centres in the state for evidence-based advocacy.   Abubakar said that as a health communication and advocacy organisation, the Nigeria Health Watch would continue to advocate for better healthcare for Nigerians.   Responding, Mr Hamza Ikara, Director Disease Control, Kaduna State Primary Health Care Board (KDSPHCB), thanked the organisation for helping with critical data on the state of WASH in primary healthcare centres.   “The assessment shows we are doing well in most of the areas, but there is need for improvement to address all identified gaps.   “I want to assure you that the Kaduna state government is committed to improving the quality of service in its health facilities.   “We will do the best we can to implement all the recommendations in the report for improved service delivery for the betterment of the people in the state,” he said.   Also, Mr John Sarkinsamari, Director Water Supply, Kaduna State Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency, said that the agency would collaborate with KDSPHCB to bridge the gap in WASH facilities in health centres. (NAN)