By Angela Atabo The Conference of Northern States Civil Society Networks, says it plans to engage with political parties in Nigeria to ensure they comply with new Electoral Act in their activities. Alhaji Ibrahim Waiya, the Chairman of the Conference said this shortly after signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Nigeria Network of Non Governmental Organisations (NNNGO) in Abuja. “We will continue to play our role of creating awareness for citizens to participate in the electoral process and ensure that credible leaders are elected. “We will engage the political parties to ensure that they comply with what is obtained in the new Electoral law and also engage INEC on best practices,’’ Waiya said. He said that the MoU was to formalise a partnership between the two groups at strategic and operational level. “We are happy that we are coming together in partnership to seek this opportunity with NNNGO because we understand that as nonprofits networks, it is imperative to work together. “Partnership especially with the critical stakeholders in the sector will help the Nigerian civil society gain credibility, legitimacy and transparency as a sector. “The partnership is an opportunity to learn from the models and practices of NNNGO, a Network which has been in existence for almost three decades,’’ he said. Waiya said that the Conference has also been providing support on how the electoral system could work effectively. He stated that the group was in the forefront of advocating for reflection of best practices in the electoral law which was recently signed into law. He said that with the MoU, the two groups would continue with the advocacy to ensure that Nigeria has the best electoral law to guide elections’ management. Mr Oyebisi Oluseyi, the Executive Director, NNNGO, said that the partnership was in line with the mandate of the organisation. “We have a collective goal which is to ensure a thriving operational environment for nonprofits organisations in Nigeria and what we have done is a step in the right direction. “The MoU will strengthen the existing relationship between the two networks and will leverage each network’s comparative advantage to promote common understanding of the legal obligations of the organisations. “This is to ensure full compliance and adopt best practices in governance and accountability. “It is to also ensure appropriate consultation on matters of relevant and significant policies and programmes of government that affect civil society, Nigerian citizens and national development,’’ he said. Oluseyi said that the collaboration would help the two networks to serve Nigerians better and amplify the three important values of trust, accountability and transparency. He lauded the progress made on the Electoral Law in Nigeria and urged leaders to use their platforms to preach peace, ahead of the 2023 elections. He also urged Nigerians to get their voter cards to vote for credible candidates that would help Nigeria to attain Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).(NAN)