By Jessica Dogo The School of Government and Politics (SOGP), an NGO, has concluded an 8-week intensive training (Cohort) in Abuja. The Cohort is a training coursework structured around systemic challenges of the nation, focused on raising transformative value-based leaders, tailored to the students’ existing schedules. Ugochukwu Uwajeh, Media Consultant to SOGP, said the training done via zoom was the fifth in its series commenced in Jan. 29 with a public lecture titled: “Introduction to Critical Thinking”  ending on Saturday. He said the SOGP, founded by the award-winning Nigerian author, Apostle Obii Pax-Harry, under the auspices of the Nehemiah Apostolic Resource Centre (NARC), was aimed at raising transformational leaders in Africa. “The SOGP recognises the need to evolve the development and governance paradigm in Nigeria and Africa undergirded by genuine servant leadership in all arms of government. “A leadership that is imbued with a sense of mission, engaging the machinery of government to achieve the cardinal objective of forging the institutional and inter-sectoral linkages. “This will help facilitate the design and delivery of public policies that engender accelerated, inclusive and integrated economic development on a sustainable basis,” he said. Uwajeh recalled that the maiden Cohort took place in November 2019. He said it had successfully trained more than 200 individuals in Nigeria, Ghana, Sierra Leone, Rwanda and Burundi. He said the SOGP’s vision to develop transformational leaders in the sphere of government and politics is done through structured professional development programmes and initiatives. “The SOGP, Management and Alumni have driven nation-building conversations on National Identity, Politics and Governance, Sustainable Development, and have served as a think tank for the government in policymaking. “Some of SOGP annual programmes and activities include the Statesman Series. “It is designed to leverage the experience and expertise of seasoned men and women with enduring legacies in the spheres of government and politics in building capacity for deepening good governance and charting a course for a better Nigeria,” he said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)