By Angela Atabo The Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room has charged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to use lessons from the FCT Area Council poll to improve on the Osun and Ekiti governorship election. Coalition of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) made the call at its Review meeting on the FCT Area Councils Poll and Strategy Meeting on Ekiti and Osun States’ governorship election on Monday in Abuja. Convener of Situation Room, Ene Obi, said that there was need for INEC to harness lessons from FCT poll toward improving on subsequent elections. Obi said that the FCT election like other by-elections slated for 2022 was an opportunity to consolidate on the improvement of the electoral process, ahead of Ekiti and Osun poll. “Situation Room calls on INEC to work toward improving its logistics arrangement and early commencement of polls in the upcoming election. “Ensure proper and effective configuration of the accreditation devices and ensure that poll officials are properly trained on the use of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS). “Carry out extensive voter education to raise awareness on the new polling units created in its expansion of access to polling units exercise in 2021 as well as the procedure for allotting voters to these new locations. “Review its failure to distribute Permanent Voter Cards to some new registrants,’’ he said. Obi urged INEC to review the accessibility of polling units with registered voters who were Persons With Disabilities (PWDs) and also ensure the deployment of assistive materials to polling units. She said also called on political parties to actively engage in voter mobilisation to address the trend of diminishing voter turnout in Nigeria. She also urged political parties to conduct party process and primary elections fairly, particularly ahead of the two off-circle governorship election in the 2022 and 2023 General Elections. She said enjoined security agencies to continue to build on the gains recorded in election security in recent times by remaining professional in their conduct in upcoming elections. Obi also urged security officials to devise means of actively addressing vote buying during elections. (NAN)(nannews.ng)