By Constance Imasuen The Rural Electrification Agency (REA), says more than 300 clusters have been identified for electrification across the country  to achieve the goal of providing constant electricity. Mr Ayang Ogbe, the Director of Promotion (REA) in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday, said that so far, more than 12,000 shops were presently receiving clean, safe, reliable and affordable electricity supply. Ogbe said that the Sura Shopping Complex Independent Power Project in Lagos State was electrified.at the inauguration of the pilot phase of the Energising Economies Initiative (EEI). The EEI is a Federal Government  initiative that is implemented by the REA, According to him, the focus of the EEI is to electrify economic clusters in Nigeria which includes markets, shopping plazas/complexes and industrial clusters in line with the Federal Government’s goal of increasing electricity access. “The REA is mandated to implement the initiative through Technical Assistance to private project developers. “This includes identification and audit of economic clusters, facilitation of engagement with key stakeholders and technical support for project development and operation.” He said that at the Sura complex, 1,047 shops were powered, adding that also at the Ariaria International Market Independent Power Project, Aba in Abia, over 4,000 shops were energised. According to him, more than  6,000 shops  at Sabon Gari market, Kano State were energised with more connections in the pipeline. “Deployment is currently ongoing in markets under Phase 1 of the EEI. “ In 2019, a Tripartite Agreement between Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), Green Village Electricity (GVE) and Wuse Market Association was signed for the development of one MW Interconnected Mini-grid. “The phase 2 rollout plans are currently in view and conversations have begun between the developers, state governments and other key stakeholders, “Surveys and energy audits are currently being conducted for 98 Markets across the country. The agency is also exploring ways to secure concessionary finance and technical assistance to further support EEI developers. ‘’ he said. Ogbe said that the REA recently held a roundtable with Energising Economies Initiative (EEI) Private Power Developers to identify implementation gaps, He said the roundtable was held to also discuss Improvement in service delivery and strengthening of the initiative to achieve the desired goal of providing constant and reliable electricity in economic clusters across the Federation. The EEI developers at the roundtable had representatives from Ariaria International Market Energy Solutions (AMES) Limited, Solad Integrated Power Solutions Limited, Rensource Energy Limited and Green Village Electricity (GVE) Projects Limited. “At the forum, the setbacks faced by the private developers as stated by their representatives include technical and legal solutions to customer bypass, funding constraints, gas unavailability, power shortage and system collapse due to system capacity, “ Inadequate provision of metering, electricity vending system issues and challenges with customer service delivery. “The agency while acknowledging the challenges faced by the developers, reiterated the need for them to deliver on their obligations as enshrined in their bilateral and tripartite agreements. “ REA emphasised that some obligations are not being met by the developers in view of the performance of their projects, ‘’ he said. Ogbe said that REA agreed  that  some of the challenges are externally induced such as gas availability constraints, He said the agency, however, said that many of the challenges were within the developers control and they must do more to mitigate these and get their projects back on track. “The agency advised the developers to strengthen their communication culture by proactively updating their customers on key information and technical issues in order to keep their stakeholders up-to-date per time. “The REA pointed out that it is currently conducting Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning (MEL) on the EEI Markets. The output of the work will help inform us on how best to support the initiative as well as existing projects, ‘’ he said According to him, REA reiterated that the Federal Government is keen on the success of the initiative. He said that the agency plans to create an enabling environment where the private sector developer handles all the project delivery steps from inception to conclusion. “While responding to the challenges raised by the agency, the private developers agreed to step up toward ensuring the issues are addressed and services improved in all affected markets, “They said such efforts will further serve as mitigation measures in upcoming EEI projects,‘’ he said. (NAN)