By Georgina Adegbie Francis Orbih, who was re-elected Badminton Federation of Nigeria (BFN) President on Thursday, has pledged his federation’s readiness to work closely with the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Orbih, the board’s South-West representative, scored 10 votes to be re-elected President unopposed at the rescheduled BFN board elections held in Abuja. Maina Mohammed, who is the North-West representative, was also re-elected as Vice-President unopposed with 10 votes. Speaking shortly after the elections, Orbih said the new board would work in harmony and with the Sports Ministry to develop the sport in the country. “I thank God for making these elections possible. I thank the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Ismaila Abubakar, for his support and guidance. “We are going to work together with the Ministry to take badminton to the next level. “We (the BFN board) are committed and dedicated to lifting badminton up in Nigeria. We are going to continue to work as a family for the development of the sport in Nigeria,” he said. Abubakar later inaugurated the new board, urging all the members to rise to the occasion. He charged the board to be guided by the established processes, procedures and the Code of Governance of the National Sports Federations in the discharge of its responsibilities. “The task of deepening the development of the badminton sport now squarely rests on your shoulders. “Teamwork is key to achieving the Board’s goals and objectives. I salute the sheer sense of patriotism with which each of you voluntarily contested to be part of this national assignment, which comes without any form of remuneration. “You are required to bring your BFN Constitution to be in consonance with the Ministry’s 2021 Code of Governance before the end of June 2022,” the Permanent Secretary said. NAN reports that the elections which were supposed to be held in September of 2021 was shifted till Thursday due to the crisis which rocked the Federation just days before then. Peter Nelson, the Director of Planning in the Ministry, led the team which conducted the elections which were for the positions of President and Vice-President. The board has as other members Shehu Warah, Lawal Bello, Obiageli Solaja and Felix Tangbe, representing North-Central, North-East, South-East and South-South respectively. Others are Grace Gabriel (athletes’ representative), Esther Gidado (NAWIS representative), Tunde Kazeem (NAPHER-SD representative) and Malik Anas (sponsors/philanthropists/ex-officio’s representative). The rest are TY Etuku (representative of institutions) and George Shitta (technical officials’ representative).(NAN)(www.nannews.ng)