By Aderogba George The FCT Chapter of the Nigeria Medical Association  (NMA) has appealed to the authorities of the Federal Capital Territory Administration  (FCTA) not to abruptly terminate the management concession agreement between it and the NISA Medical Group. NISA manages the General Hospital, Garki, Abuja, on behalf of the FCTA under a 15-year concession agreement. NMA FCT Chairman, Dr Enema Amodu, made the appeal on Friday at a news conference saying that the one month termination notice given by the FCT Administration (FCTA) to the NISA Medical Group was not a fair one. He said it had also become necessary to shelve the planned contract termination because some NMA members and other medical personnel in the hospital were currently undergoing post-graduate programmes in the hospital , in addition to the freshly  graduated doctors who were also doing their housemanship in the facility. “On the abrupt termination of the Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement between the NISA Medical Group and the FCTA at Garki hospital, the NMA FCT totally and completely rejects the position of the FCTA. “FCTA move will terminate the post-graduate medical training of doctors, as well as internship programmes of doctors, pharmacists and nurses who are currently running their programmes in the institution. “These prgrammes require a definite period for proper completion and exit. These accredited programmes are supervised by the highly exalted National Post-Graduate Medical College of Nigeria and other similar international bodies,’’ he stressed. Amodu advised that if the FCTA was terminating the concession agreement because of an alleged N131 million the NISA Medical Group was owing it, both parties should meet to resolve it. It appealed to the FCTA to reconsider its stance on the termination of the contract. According to him, the NMA FCT has noted with dismay the irregular and haphazard spate of posting of house officers to the hospital by the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria. He expressed the association’s displeasure over the practice, pointing out that that the statutory period of housemanship for fresh graduates of medical school was sacrosanct. He called for a reorganization of the process to achieve a seamless transition and placement of the medical doctors. Amodu stated that the present situation was unacceptable, and that it fell below the expectations of the desired goal, saying that a bigger problem has been created with the central posting. He recommended that the Federal Ministry of Health should revert to the previous state of allowing institutions to recruit and pay the doctors to forestall the unnecessary bottlenecks presently being experienced. The NMA FCT Chairman also recommended a universal applicability of the proposed new hazard allowance to every medical doctor and health worker, irrespective of his duty post. He said that every health personnel was exposed to the hazards of the profession wherever he was practising and, therefore, deserved to be paid accordingly. He commended the Federal Government on the availability of COVID-19 vaccine, saying that most people have received the booster dose. He said there was need for the government to also pay attention to other infectious diseases such as Lassa fever, cholera and malaria that affect the lower class of people. Amodu also called on the Federal Government and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to solve the persistent fuel shortage in the country. He said the situation had severely affected the practice of medicine as health workers were finding it difficult to get to their workplaces to discharge their duties. He also called for frequent and compulsory medical check-ups for health workers to guide against any form of ailment. Mr Moses Ebute (SAN), Chairman, Nigeria Bar Association, Abuja branch, who was also at the news conference condemned the one month notice given by the FCTA to NISA medical group. He said that the legal profession was particularly concerned that the word “abrupt termination’’ used by the FCTA shows that it had even ended the contract without giving room for further discussion. According to him, if the NISA Medical Group is unable to vacate the building within the one month notice given by the FCTA, it must not be evicted as the one-month notice is not enough. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)