By Aderemi Bamgbose/Mufutau Ogunyemi In a bid to reduce road crashes, the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) on Friday inaugurated the new Unit Command RS11.26 in Okitipupa, Okitipupa Local Government Area of Ondo State. Assistant Corps Marshal, Mr Emmanuel Abe, the Zonal Commanding Officer, RS 11, HQ, Osogbo, said that new unit command which was long-overdue received the approval of the Corps Marshal, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi. Abe, who was represented by Mr Ezekiel SonAllah, the Sector Commander in Ondo State, said that the unit command would begin operations immediately. He said that the personnel would begin with a sensitisation of the public in the area on the need to be safety conscious when driving. The zonal commander said the safety advocacy would be taken to traditional and religious leaders as well as other stakeholders who would disseminate it to their subjects, congregations and members of commercial driver unions. “This new command is Corps Marshal Oyeyemi’s dream that has come to pass because the issue of saving lives is very important to him and we are happy about it. “This is a full-fledged command that will be on ground to begin awareness in terms of rescue operations, public education and enlightenment, for the people to know about safety. “We will also use the media to let people know we are on ground. We will take public education to traditional institutions, churches, mosques, motor parks and markets to educate them on the right attitudes and obedience to traffic regulations,” Abe said. He thanked Oba Michael Adetoye-Obatuga, the Jegun of Idepe-Okitipupa, for his quest in facilitating the creation of the new unit and prayed for longevity for him to continue to impact positively on the community. Earlier, Oba Akitoye-Obatuga said that he was so happy over the new FRSC unit inaugurated in Okitipupa. He said that the stress of sending messages to Ore Unit Command, which is some distance from Okitipupa, whenever there is an emergency will no longer be necessary. He thanked the FRSC Corps Marshal for approving the establishment of the unit, adding that the FRSC presence would reduce crashes in Okitipupa and its environs. ‘I am so happy that this unit command is coming at appropriate time. This will reduce crashes on our roads as well as reduce distress calls to Ore. “I urge residents to embrace FRSC and abide by all traffic and safety measures,” Adetoye-Obatuga said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the new FRSC Unit Command is situated along Okitipupa-Erinje road, Okitipupa (NAN)