By Sarafina Christopher The Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) has urged Nigerian government officials to ensure timely fulfillment of their commitments to the 13 million dollars e-Government project, sponsored by the Korean Government. KOICA’s Country Director Mr Sungil Son gave the advice in a statement on Friday. The agency made the call after an interaction with government officials at a two-week pre-kick-off survey. The survey was a pre-launch of the “Project for Building Foundations Towards Digital Governance in Nigeria from 2021~2026” through collaboration between KOICA and the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy (FMCDE). According to KOICA, the project is a fully-funded grant project worth 13 million U.S. dollars between Korea (represented by KOICA) and Nigeria (represented by the ministry). “An official project kick-off ceremony signifying the commencement of the project implementation activities is scheduled for May 2022. “The project is expected to enhance Nigeria’s e-Government implementation system through an update of the current Nigeria e-Government Master Plan (NeGMP), upgrade of Nigeria’s Enterprise Architecture, and development of 10-year e-Government Implementation Plan. “Other objectives of the project include improvement in competencies for e-Government service delivery through capacity building programmes designed for policymakers and technical officers at both the federal and state levels of government. “The project also seeks to enhance the quality of government digital services through the activation of the Government Service Portal – www.services.gov.ng, to create increased access for National Identity Number (NIN) enrollment through the establishment of additional NIN enrollment units,” the agency said. The KOICA country director underscored the need for the stakeholders to remain committed to ensuring full implementation of the project in a timely manner. He further called for the support of government at all levels towards the realisation of the objectives of the project. The event attracted stakeholders from Sangmyung University, National Information Technology Development Agency, Galaxy Backbone, National Identity Management Commission, United Nations Children’s Education Fund, and the National Population Commission. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)