By Rukayat Moisemhe i-Fitness, fastest growing fitness chain in West Africa, has expanded footprints to provide Nigerians, particularly those living in urban communities with a healthy lifestyle. Founder, i-Fitness, Mr Foluso Ogunwale, made this known in a statement on Wednesday in Lagos. Ogunwale said the company’s decision to open two new outlets in the heart of Lagos was borne out of the desire to ensure easy access to lifestyle facilities. He noted that the company was established in 2015 to address the alarming rate of death caused by non-communicable diseases. Ogunwale cited that a 2021 global report from the World Health Organisation (WHO) had estimated death arising from non-communicable diseases globally to be at about 71 per cent. He said that was a wake-up call that led to the planting of fitness chains across Lagos state. “We are very excited to build the first fitness chain Nigeria has ever seen start from Lagos with two more locations. “We are more excited because we have the rare opportunity to create the path in the industry, creating over 400 jobs. “We currently have the highest engagement of personal trainers in West Africa and this gives us the privilege to assist these vibrant, youthful people with a means of decent livelihood. “We are excited to be creating jobs and values, we are also excited for our members because we are giving them the enabling environment to live their life,” he said. Ogunwale disclosed that the target of the company in the next five years was to ensure that fitness chains take root globally. He added that plans were already in the pipeline to launch a digital fitness that would be accessible to everyone around the world. Also, Chairman, i-Fitness Board, Mr Michael Ikpoki, said that the company remained committed to supporting Nigerians’ quest for a healthier lifestyle by creating new outlets in several locations, particularly in urban cities such as Lagos and Abuja. Ikpoki explained that the focus of setting up a new fitness location was to provide opportunities for more Nigerians to access world-class gym facilities. He added that the company would continue to improve on quality as it rolls out more outlets. Ikpoki said that the company would continue to play its part in creating jobs and contributing to the Lagos economy through the establishment of outlets. “For every outlet we open, we try to improve standards or raise the bar in terms of structure, appeal, look, or ambiance. “Our facilities provide different opportunities for our members to have an improved and healthy lifestyle and we are committed to building a community of health enthusiasts and physical trainers,” he added.(NAN) (www.nannews.ng)