By Yakubu Uba The International and Ibero-American Foundation for Administration and Public Policy (FIIAPP) has trained 75 law enforcement personnel on countering human trafficking and smuggling migrants in North East. The participants were drawn from National Agency for Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Yobe and Taraba States. Project Team Lead, Rafael Molina, said this at the end of the three-day training exercise on Wednesday in Maiduguri. He said the training was designed to strengthen the capacity of personnel in identifying migrant smuggling and human trafficking for successful investigation and prosecution of perpetrators. Represented by Sani Dantuni, Technical Advisor, Criminal Investigation of the project, Molina said the exercise was part of the Action Against Trafficking in Persons and Smuggling of Migrants (A-TIPSOM) bieng implemented by FIIAPP with support of the European Union. “A-TIPSOM project is part of the 11th European Development Fund (EDF) signed between the European Union and the Federal Government of Nigeria. “The overall objective of this project is contributing to the series of initiatives of the government of Nigeria towards decreasing the ratio of trafficking in persons (TIP) and smuggling of migrants (SOM) at national and regional level, and between Nigeria and the EU, with specific emphasis on women and children. “This is done through direct support to NPF, NIS, NAPTIP and the civil society organisations represented by the Network against Child Trafficking, Abuse and Labour (NACTAL),” he said. Also speaking, Orakwue Arinze, NAPTIP’s Director of Training and Manpower Development, said human trafficking portends economic and security implications in Nigeria if not contain effectively. He said the training would not only reposition the officers but also ensure synergy among the various law enforcement agencies in the fight against human trafficking. (NAN)(www.nanneww.ng)