By Lucy Ogalue The African Urban Cycling Organisation (AUCO), a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), is soliciting the support of the Ministry of Transportation to promote cycling in the country. The President of AUCO, Mr Emmanuel John, made the call when he led a team to visit the Minister of State for Transport, Sen. Gbemisola Saraki in Abuja on Tuesday. John appealed to the ministry to assist in funding its cycling activities and to also constitute a committee that would review the National Cycling Policy and Strategy (NCPS). ”Our vision is to make cycling the everyday means of commute for African urban dwellers. ”We aim to lead the research in capacity building, networking and advocacy for cycling as a reliable means of Transport in Africa and for people living in Africa. ” We are here to seek your support and collaboration to help in funding our activities and for you to constitute a committee for the NCPS,”John said. According to John, the visit is to among other things discuss the need to support and mainstream cycling and non-motorised transport activities and programmes. He said it was also to discuss cycling activities for 2022 and beyond that required engagements with relevant transport related authorities. John said some of the policy measures was to build capacity of policy makers, study and enhance the curriculum of Transport courses and establish institutios to manage cycling among other things. Responding, the minister of state, Saraki, said there was the need to set up a committee to review the NCPS document. Saraki, represented by Mrs Perpetual Akoji, the Assistant Director, Road Transport Administration ( RTA), urged the team not to relent in their efforts following the advantages of cycling. ”We all know the benefits of cycling. It is a good course you are undertaking so do not be discouraged no matter the time it takes to achieve your goal. ”Your effort is already yielding results and it is being appreciated .We have seen/heard your request. ”Policy implementation is very important. We don’t have roads designed for cycling but we are discussing with the ministry of works to make the roads conducive for cycling,” she said. While reiterating the importance of awareness, Saraki noted that some roads within the FCT were designed for cycling but was not being used because the people were not aware of it. She said: ”we are happy with what you are doing and the secretariat will look at your request, do recommendations and seek approvals to support your efforts. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the meeting was attended by delegates and staff of the ministry. (NAN)