By Ifeanyi Olannye The Delta Government has approved the construction and rehabilitation of over 30 kilometers of roads to link rural agrarian communities across the state. The Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu, disclosed this in Asaba, while briefing newsmen on the outcome of the State Executive Council meeting on Tuesday. Aniagwu said the approvals were part of measures designed to urbanise some communities in the three senatorial districts of the state. He listed some of the roads to include 2.05 kilometres Kokodiagbene Road in Warri South West, 10.85km Ute-Okpu/Ute-Enugu Road in Ika North East and 1.5km Ovie Palace Road in Mosogar, Ethiope West. Others were the Etua-Oliogo and Etua Etiti Roads in Ndokwa West, 4.9km Aviara-Bethel Road in Isoko South and 1.2km Abi-Ezionum Road. He said that “there will also be 12km internal roads in Uwheru, Ughelli North, which will cut across eight agrarian communities. “We are still continuing with approval of projects, not just to enable us finish strong, but also reach several rural communities and urbanise them. The commissioner said the 10.85km Ute-Okpu/Ute-Enugu Road was awarded in 2010 but “abandoned over time and later repudiated”. He further said that the council also approved the construction of a landing jetty at Kolofiagbene in Bomadi. He said it further approved the construction of a new office accommodation for the state Civil Service Commission. He said that approval was also given for the appointment of a financial adviser on a proposal for the state government to partner with a nail production firm. According to Aniagwu, the financial adviser will advise the government on the viability of the firm at Isele-Azagba and how it can take advantage of the Free Trade Zone in Kwale. He said the council also approved the upgrade of some sports facilities, including hostels to accommodate the athletes for the National Sports Festival billed to hold in the state in November. “We have tried to situate some of the sports facilities in schools in order for them to still be useful after the festival. “The council also approved the upgrade of a hockey pitch in Okpanam,” the commissioner said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)