By Fortune Abang Prof. Alhassan Muhammad, National Chairman, Nigerian National Committee on Study of “Kimilsungism-Kimjongilism”, has commended the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), for its remarkable growth in housing development. Muhammad told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Monday in Abuja, that in the last 10 years, the republic had witnessed a boom in housing construction. NAN reports that Kimilsungism-Kimjongilism, formerly referred to as “Juche Idea’’ is a development policy centred on self-reliance. According to the don, the country’s housing development played an important role in providing DPRK citizens with more civilised and stable living conditions. Muhammad said: `The country channels great efforts in building residential houses in the capital and the provinces; modern streets and residential districts built one after the other from 2012. “The buildings include`; Changjon Street in the central part of Pyongyang, Unha Scientists Street, apartments for lecturers at Kim Il Sung University and Kim Chaek University of Technology. “Others are; Wisong Scientists Residential District, Mirae Scientists Street and Ryomyong Street. “From then, a modern street sprang up every year in Pyongyang. Housing construction was undertaken on an unprecedented scale in towns and rural communities in the provinces. “The renovation project of the city of Samjiyon in northern Korea, which had been carried out in three stages, was brought to completion in 2021, four years after its started as a model of perfect harmony of modern national and alpine features. “The city attracted the attention of the international community as a result of the construction of low-rise and multi-storey building apartments for thousands of households and many excellent facilities.’’ Muhammad described such housing features to include a mountainous town, 1,300 metres above sea level on average. He further explained that such modern houses were built one after the other in many other places like Onjong-ri, Yangdok County, in the middle part of the country and Sangso-ri, Poptong County in the eastern part. According to him, in the Jungphyong area, located in the northeastern part, hundreds of modern houses were built for the employees of a large-scale greenhouse vegetable farm and a tree nursery. “Precedence is given to housing construction in building the Tanchon Power Station which is of great importance in the country’s power production. “This clearly showed the considerate intention of the Workers’ Party of Korea (WPK) and DPRK government, to prevent inconveniences in the life of DPRK citizens, who will be relocated when important construction projects were undertaken. “Prompt measures are taken for disaster victims in 2015, 2016, 2020 and 2021, when most parts of the country were severely affected by flooding. “Also heavy rains and typhoons, resulting in a number of factories, enterprises, farmland, and houses destroyed or inundated. “Many people around the world are concerned about the flood victims in DPRK as it is posing harsh difficulties and hardships, owing to persisting blockade and sanctions by the forces hostile towards it. “However, WPK and DPRK promptly rose to the occasion with a view that the people’s suffering was the biggest emergency and most important.” He defined the construction of houses for the victims as the first priority in the rehabilitation project and mobilisation of the human, material and technical potential of the country. According to Muhammad, nice streets and villages have been built in a very short span of time, and that victims of disasters have been allocated those new houses. “The people around the world are surprised to see the flood victims, who they thought must be in despair moving to new houses. “What is surprising is that the houses are built with state investment given to them free of charge; the scale of the country’s housing construction is getting larger and larger with the passage of time. “In March 2021, the ground-breaking ceremony for the project to build 10,000 flats was held in Pyongyang in the presence of Kim Jong Un, president of the State Affairs of the DPRK. “A big architectural group composed of 10,000 flats were built in the Songsin and Songhwa districts and 800 luxurious houses in the Pothong riverside terraced houses district near completion. “The Komdok area is DPRK leading non-ferrous minerals producer being renovated into unprecedented large mountain gorge town. “ 25,000 new houses are planned to be built in miners’ town by 2025, which marks the 80th founding anniversary of the WPK.’’ He said the reason for such successes was not just because DPRK had surplus funds or good conditions, but that it regarded the supreme principle of its activities to make infrastructure and service to the people a priority. Muhammad therefore, attributed the success so far recorded by DPRK to the politics of love for the people by Kim Jong Un, by prioritising things that would ensure they were stable and enjoyed a more civilised life. He said Kim Jong Un had at the ground-breaking ceremony described the housing feat as “quite impressive”. “The Party and the government, have made themselves aware of the number of families that were in need of new houses and conducted in-depth research to determine the measures for solving the problem. “They regarded this project as the most important task, adding that nothing is more honourable for us than to dedicate our sweat and passion without hesitation. “Building an ideal street that will be home for our people,’’ Kim Jong Un was quoted as saying. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)