By Emmanuel Antswen   The Nigerian Navy Provost and Regulating School, Makurdi, on Friday, graduated 14 first class students, the Chief Instructor of the school, Lt.-Cdr. Uzor Igwe, has said.   Igwe made the disclosure on Friday during the school’s combined graduation ceremony.   While presenting the course highlights, Igwe said that 20 students made second class while four graduated with third class.   He said that the graduation ceremony was for four courses: Master-At-Arms Refresher Course 08/22, Master-At-Arms Qualifying Course 11/22, Regulating Petty Officer Qualifying Course 13/22, and Leading Regulating Qualifying Course 14/22.   He said that the courses which started on Jan 17, lasted for 12 weeks.   According to the chief instructor, 40 personnel were nominated for the courses but 38  eventually participated.   Igwe said that the courses were designed to enhance general discipline, crime prevention and detection, investigation, prosecution, enforcement of various regulations and interpretation of the Armed Forces Act.   “The overall objective of the courses is to teach  students how to continue to maintain and enforce discipline as well as prevent crime,” he said.   In his address of  welcome, the Commandant, Nigerian Navy Provost and Regulating School Makurdi, Cdr. Chindo Yahaya, said that the school had graduated a total of 1,165 personnel since its relocation from Lagos to Makurdi in 2010.   Yahaya said that the school had imbibed in students best global practices in law enforcement within the military and, to an extent, outside the military.   He said that the graduands were the first set to benefit from the reviewed curriculum of the school recently approved by the chief of naval staff.   “Since the school relocated from Lagos to Makurdi in 2010, it has trained 1,165 personnel comprising 164 officers and 1,001 ratings, the graduating students today inconclusive.   “The new curriculum incorporated subjects such as cyber security, health safety and environment, maritime domain awareness and contemporary operations.   “Plans are ongoing to partner with University of Mkar, for the next set of students to participate and benefit from diploma and advanced diploma in security management,’’ he said.   The special guest of honour, Maj.-Gen. Joseph Omali, charged the graduands to live up to expectations.   Omali said that the naval provost and regulating personnel should be to knowledgeable and disciplined.   He remarked that those enforcing the law should know  and uphold it.   “This is also a period of transformation.   “The Nigerian Navy is looking up to you to apply what you have learnt to improve your performance at your respective duty posts.   The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that 12 students won different categories of awards during the ceremony.