By Salif Atojoko  Gov. Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State says his administration will unleash the economic potential of the state to achieve rapid development. Sule said this while unveiling plans for the inaugural Nasarawa Investment Summit scheduled to hold in May, at a media briefing on Tuesday in Lagos. The governor, who spoke virtually, said the summit was to showcase the potential of the state and attract investment to different sectors. “We have seen many investment summits in this country, and decided to approach our own differently. “We started with an economic development study, which produced a document called Nasarawa Economic Development Strategy; a plan for the economic transformation of the state. “It also provided the legal framework for doing business and to achieve ease of doing business in the state,” said Sule. The governor explained that the summit would focus on agriculture, mining and housing development. He said Nasarawa had a natural advantage to attract investors because it was contiguous to many parts of Abuja, and a thoroughfare to many neigbouring states. “We see Nasarawa as a diamond in the rough, and we look forward to private investors coming to partner with us to further develop Nasarawa,” Sule said. Prof Koyinsola Ajayi, Chairman of Nasarawa Investment and Economic Advisory Council, said the administration of Sule was committed to improving the lives of the people of Nasarawa. “The administration believes greatly in the partnership between the private and public sectors as engine of growth and development. “The investment summit is about building infrastructure. If you have good infrastructure, development follows. We see infrastructure as a stimulus for development. “The state is ready to be the technology hub and the tourist hub of the country. The summit seeks to ease the burden of development on the federal government,” said Ajayi. The Managing Director/CEO, Nasarawa Investment and Development Agency (NACIDDA), Mr Ibrahim Abdullahi, said the governor was leading the involvement of the private sector in changing the economic fortune of the state. “Nasarawa has a robust PPP, which has brought to life many developmental milestones. “Nasarawa has embarked on a holistic security architecture, which incorporates traditional leaders. “This makes Nasarawa one of the safest states to do business in Nigeria,” Abdullahi said.