Mrs Ruth Adeleye flanked by her children as well as Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed and MD, News Agency of Nigeria, Mr Buki Ponle,  at the event.   By Olayinka Owolewa The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has advised Nigerian parents to ensure proper upbringing of their children in order to promote an egalitarian society. The minister gave the advice in Ilorin on Sunday at the 87th birthday thanksgiving service for Mrs Ruth Adeleye at the Emmanuel Baptist Church. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the celebrator is the mother of a long serving aide of the minister, Williams Adeleye, The minister, while addressing the gathering, thanked the octogenarian for her advice all the time, adding that he had long joined the list of the celebrator’s children because of his long standing relationship with the family. “I listened to the sermon, I am glad that I have picked one or two things that I will take home. “Like the officiating minister said, it is good for all Nigerians to always appreciate God in all things. “I appreciate the man of God for his prayers for Nigeria and I thank Emmanuel Baptist Church, Ilorin, ” the minister said. Mohammed said that after listening to the reading of the celebrator’s biography, one can understand that with determination, anyone can overcome any obstacle. “It is not when you turn into a millionaire that you want to thank God; at every point in life, we must give thanks to God. “I am glad that the children are celebrating their mother when she is still alive instead of spending a fortune after she is gone,” Mohammed said. Earlier in his sermon, the officiating Pastor, Rev. Taiye Adeola, admonished all Nigerians to always appreciate God at all times. Adeola took his sermon from the book of Psalm 118 vs 21-24, entitled: “The Lord’s doing.” He said: ” All what we are today, it is the goodness of God, yet we take it for granted. “God is the source of every good thing, that our Mama is 87 years today is the Lord’s doing. “If Mama could cast her mind back, she will realise that many of the people they started the journey together with are no more, it is God that made it possible. “God did not cease to show us goodness and mercy and give on to us His blessings. “That God keeps you alive and protects your children are examples of the goodness of God in your life.” Among the dignitaries that attended the event were the Managing Director of NAN, Mr Buki Ponle and Mr Segun Adeyemi, a Senior Special Assistant to the President, Office of the Minister of Information and Culture, Others were the Director General of the National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Segun Runsewe, and Director General, National Film and Censors Board, Alhaji Thomas Adedayo. Others were the Board Chairman of the Nigeria Broadcasting Cooperation, Alhaji Bashir Bolarinwa, as well as directors in the Ministry of Information and Culture. Also in attendance were the Olugbon of Orile Igbon, Oba Francis Alao, and Sen. Brimmo Yusuf representing Oyo North Senatorial District of Oyo State.(NAN) (www.nannews.ng)