By Salisu Sani-Idris Dr Lazarus Gaza, House of Representatives aspirant for AMAC/Bwari Federal Constituency of the APC says he is the right person with the competence and acceptability to represent his people in the Green Chamber in 2023. Gaza said this, while addressing journalists after he obtained the N10 million APC expression of interest and nomination forms at the International Conference Centre, Abuja on Friday. He lamented the inability of APC to win the seat since its inception, saying that did not mean the party could not win as one or two things must have been done wrongly. “And the best thing it to correct the mistake that has been made. “It’s most likely the candidates that were fielded had not been the right candidates; they may not have been the popular candidates. “Perhaps, the electorate or the delegates were not happy with the candidate that was brought out to contest the election on the platform of APC. “This time around, I want to tell the whole world that I’m the right candidate. I have the credentials, I’m competent and I have the overall general acceptability of the electorate cutting across the two political parties not only APC but including PDP .” On his mission and vision for his constituents, Gaza said he was contesting to ensure that the four slots that were given to FCT during the 1992 and 1993, were restored to FCT. “And I’m going to do it this way, I’m going to bring the consensus of my colleagues; members of the National Assembly. I need to synergise with the executive like the minister of FCT, I need to get his backing. “With this synergy, I believe we will be able to do something rightly. The constitutional benefits and rights the FCT is supposed to get have not been given to us. During my tenure, these constitutional rights will be granted FCT. “I will make sure that the second tier of government is given to FCT residents. I will also ensure that at least FCT is given a ministerial slot whether it’s an FCT indigene or any Nigerian that is resident in FCT. “If such a person can be given a ministerial slot, then we would have made progress. I will ensure that the city itself is kept clean. The citizens are supposed to enjoy a clean city. “The need for decentralisation of development is very important. Development should be decentralised so that the rural areas can develop. Why is it that some ministries can not be moved to the area councils? ” If we do that, the development in the FCT will be faster. The election is about the people and I  always been with the people. ” I will ensure that enabling laws are put in place that will diversify, deepen and take care of the socio-economic wellbeing of the people.” (NAN)