By Chukwuemeka Opara A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial aspirant in Ebonyi, Dr Ifeanyi Odii, has urged the people to jettison the zoning principle and choose leaders with capacity to enhance their wellbeing. Odii, Chief Executive Officer, Ebele and Anyi Chuks Foundation, made the call on Thursday in his hometown Isu, Onicha Local Government Area of state while declaring his gubernatorial aspiration to the 2023 general elections. The business mogul and philanthropist said though he hails from the southern senatorial zone of the state with the incumbent governor, his capacity to govern the state should be considered above all other criteria. “I am a bonafide citizen of Ebonyi and therefore qualified to contest for the governorship position in the state. “All the senatorial zones of the state have taken their turns for the seat and the next shot can start from anywhere that capacity is found,” he said. He noted that people should not propagate the zoning ideology just for the sake of campaigning. “I have my developmental projects and various philanthropic activities in every local government area of the state. “My scholarship and various empowerment programmes have benefited several citizens of the state and impacted positively on them,” he said. Odii said that he would place great emphasis on provision of adequate security, creating wealth and redefining the act of governance. “All our visions and efforts will be in vain without enthrenching adequate security in the state. “Our approach to security will be proactive and technologically driven as I will put my best in defence of our people’s lives and properties,” he said. The aspirant pledged to restore the people’s confidence in governance and establish a social contract that would form the basis of a new partnership. “I am a firm believer in democratic process, rule of law and reward for hardwork. “My duties as the governor, if elected, will not stop my humanitarian activities because I have inaugurated structures that will sustain and enhance them,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that many dignataries, including party stalwarts attended the event and pledged their support to the actualisation of his ambition. (NAN)