By Aderonke Ojo Sunday Ajana, head coach of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) handball club, says the club has signed on 13 new players for the forthcoming Prudent Energy Handball League. Ajana told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Abuja that the players have been signed on for both their male and female teams. He said while eight players are for the female team, known as “D-Defenders”, five players will be joining the male team, known as “The Defenders”. Both teams will feature in the fifth edition of the league beginning in May. The coach told NAN that the introduction of the new players would help them to compete favourably in the league and enhance their aspiration for the trophies. “Thankfully, the management has boosted the team with fresh legs. This development should put both teams in pole position to win the trophies this season. “Both teams finished each in fifth place last season, but we want to see them improve in the league this year, and this necessitated the inclusion of new players,” he said. Ajana said the club management was expecting their teams to face tough opposition in the league this year. “But we won’t be intimidated. We have commenced training already. We will remain focused, take each game as it comes and keep our eyes on the prize. “I believe the players have the ability to deliver and we have given them what they require to succeed,” he said. The coach however lauded the efforts of the NSCDC Commandant-General, Ahmed Audi, saying his motivation and support for the teams have kept them going. “We would not have come this far without the moral and financial support of our CG. “He is interested in sports and is always there for us whenever we need him. We can only reciprocate by doing well in the league,” he said. Ajana noted that the intervention of commandant-general has always been timely for them. “If nothing else, he has deemed it fit to make us smile at this time. His intervention is very appropriate and timely and we promise to reciprocate by doing well in the league,” he said. NAN reports that Safety Babes emerged the women champions in the last edition of the league, while the male category title was won by the Kano Pillars. The league is the biggest handball competition in the country, and this year’s edition is billed for May 22 to June 2 at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)