By Angela Atabo Mrs Mercy Adejo, the Founder of Women Strengthening Women in Nigeria, an NGO has advised women to support each other in view of the current economic challenges. Adejo gave the advice in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on the sideline of an empowerment programme/handing over of cash and food items to widows on Thursday in Abuja. She said that the intervention was part of the Foundation’s programme of supporting women and ameliorating their plight. According to her, the Foundation is committed to building the capacities of vulnerable women to enable them contribute positively to the lives of their families and communities. “I urge you women in Nigerian to develop a victorious attitude toward the battles of life. “I also encourage you to see battles and tribulations in life as part of the Christian journey, so face them with faith and prayers and the Lord would grant you total victory,” she said. Adejoh said that apart from the donation, the event was meant to bring women together to deliberate on family values, spiritual and national issues. She expressed the hope that the women would proffer solutions to the challenges facing the family and the nation. She said that as women, they should also focus on their spiritual development and that of their families. “Emulate the life of Jesus Christ, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom,’’ she said. Adejo urged them to also pray for peace and prosperity in the country. Earlier, Secretary of the Foundation, Ms Kechikamma Omehia advised women to be prayerful and strive to overcome their challenges. “Worrying changes nothing, but prayers can change all things, there is an unreserved power which you cannot access until you pray,’’ she added. Some of the beneficiaries commended the Foundation for the donation and inspiring programme meant to give them a new focus in life. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the food items donated to the widows included rice, maize, millet, spaghetti, cooking oil and cash, among others. (NAN) (nannews.ng)