By Fortune Abang The newly constituted Board of Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation-Americas (NIDO), U.S. Chapter, has urged compatriots to always dedicate themselves to goals that would promote growth of Nigeria. Dr Eromonsele Idahosa, the new Chairman of the board, gave the task in a telephone interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday, on the sidelines of the inaugural ceremony of the board. Idahosa charged the board members to be dedicated to the course of building a strong NIDO-Americas, U.S. chapter, that would be a force to be reckoned with. “Nigeria is confronted with existential crisis; we have a lot of work to do. “We invite other partners and stakeholders in the Nigerian project to join in carrying out this enormous task; this is not the time for cynicism and negativity,” Idahosa urged. According to Idahosa, an Indianna-based medical practitioner, the board’s executive is constituted based on an election monitored by Nigeria Embassy in Washington DC. He said that the inauguration of the board was conducted five months after a landmark agreement between NIDO-Americas, U.S. Board of Directors and the Board of Trustees of NIDO-Americas. The chairman further said that the aim was to work together in unity to foster progress of the organisation. NAN reports that the newly constituted board included chapters from Dallas, Minnesota, Indianna, Northeast Ohio, Florida, Atlanta, Maryland, Houston, Los Angeles, South Carolina and Northwest Ohio. Other executive members of the board included Madam Jane Ekwonye, Vice-Chairman; Mr Christopher Amukwu, Co-Vice Chairman; Dr Moses Timta, Secretary-General; Dr Yinka Tella, Public Relations Officer; and Rita Poroma, Community Affairs Director. Mr Emmanuel Nsonwu emerged as Treasurer; Dr Raymond Sowemimo, Assistant Secretary-General; Alade Salvador, Financial Secretary; and Mr Jeffrey Derebidoh, Assistant Financial Secretary. President of 12 NIDO chapters alongside one elected board member from each chapter took their oaths of office at the inaugural ceremony conducted virtually by a U.S. Federal Judge of Nigerian origin. The newly elected officers of the unified board of NIDO-Americas, U.S.A., had formerly assumed office, following the dissolution of the previous board. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)