Ritual money By Deji Abdulwahab The Managing Director, Movida Lounge, Abuja, Mr Sunny Onweazu, has called on Nigerian youths to stop the quest for unwholesome wealth known as ‘yahoo and ritual money’. Onweazu, who gave the advice on Friday while celebrating his 47th birthday and 12th Anniversary of Movida Lounge, urged the youth to engage in genuine business. “The problem we have in Nigeria is that  youths are not ready to work hard. I have tried a lot of them, but they are not willing, they want easy money. “They don’t want to stress themselves; they want to make easy money without going through any difficulty. “Though things are not easy in Nigeria, the only thing that comes easy is bad money, which is called ‘yahoo and ritual money’ which will not take our youths anywhere,” Onweazu said. According to him, hard work is better and the youth they are running away from it. “This is the problem I always have with them,” Onweazu said. He said that Nigerian youth should start to do something for themselves and get busy, saying that by the time they did that, they would have a better Nigeria. The hotelier added that the youth should begin to engage in hospitality and entertainment businesses, describing the sector as one of the biggest businesses in the country. “What our youth need to do is to be dedicated and sincere to the business, because some committed stakeholders make more profit in the hospitality business,” Onweazu said. In his speech, the manager of the lounge, Mr Omega Ofoedu, called on the Federal Government to improve on electricity supply to support the hotel business to thrive in the country. Ofoedu said that before he used to buy diesel at N350 per litre, but now he bought it N700 due to inadequate electricity supply in his hotel. The President of Movida Parliament, Mr Mfon Ekwere, described the parliament as a forum of friends and customers of Movida Lounge. Ekwere said that the parliament helped the lounge to get feedback on the challenges and improvements recorded by the lounge in the area of service delivery. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)