By Ginika Okoye Stakeholders in public and private sectors have committed to the effective implementation of the second National Programme of Action (NPoA) to enhance economic growth and development. The stakeholders who spoke at the closing of a five-day workshop to finalise the NPoA document in Abuja on Friday, said a collaborative effort was needed to implement the action. Princess Gloria Akobundu, the Chief Executive Officer of the Africa Union Development Agency (AUDA-NEPAD), Nigeria, said the workshop dealt with challenges identified in line with the country’s National Development Plan (NDP). Akobundu said that participants at the workshop also looked at the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2030 and the AU-Agenda 2063 for smooth implementation of the NPoA in line with global best practices. She said that some of the recommendations made were geared toward addressing security challenges and unemployment in the country. Others recommendations are policies that would enhance economic growth, address education lapses, out of school children, public private sector partnership and infrastructure to ensure good governance. Akobundu said the implementation of the NPoA would take place across all states in the country. ”We designed a framework that will be used to implement the NPoA, addressing the challenges and consolidating on the gains,” she said. Akobundu, however, expressed optimism that President Muhammadu Buhari would launch the NPoA document between July and August for effective implementation. Prof. Eddy Maloka, the Chief Executive Officer of the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) Continental Secretariat, said that the country had shown commitment in producing the document. Maloka, represented by Mr Jean Adou, acting Director of Monitoring and Evaluation at the APRM Secretariat, said that collaborative efforts were needed in the implementation process. Dr Louis Mandema, a member of the National Governing Council of the APRM, said that all stakeholders must remain consistent in the implementation of the NPoA until the results were achieved. Alhaji Nuhu Laumarah, the Gombe State Coordinator of AUDA-NEPAD, Nigeria, assured that the coordinators would ensure prompt implementation of the programme in the states when launched. Mr Kanayo Iwuchukwu, a representative of the Organised Private Sector (OPS), said the workshop had enlightened them for better understanding of the document. Iwuchukwu pledged the commitment and collaboration of the OPS to ensure adequate implementation of the programme when launched. Mrs Margaret Katanda, a representative of the Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), said they were committed to making the NPoA, a success. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the APRM was established in 2003 by the AU Heads of State and Government to foster practices that lead to political stability, high economic growth, sustainable and inclusive development. The core mandate of the APRM is a comprehensive NPoA developed to address governance challenges identified in the country. NAN also reports that the five-day programme attracted stakeholders from across AU member states. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)