By Sylvester Thompson Mr Anibe Achimugu, President of National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN), has said all key players in the Cotton, Textile and Garment (CTG) sector are prepared to the improve nation’s economy. Achimugu said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Abuja. He disclosed that the synergy, unity and robust working relationship presently existing among the CTG sector players were geared towards impacting positively on the economy as also fostered during their national dialogue held recently. “I want to thank the German Agency for International Cooperation (GIZ) for cohosting the national dialogue on CTG with NACOTAN, with Ginners Association of Nigeria, with COPMAN, with NTMA and all industry players,’’ he said. The NACOTAN president said the sector was endowed with huge potential capable of reviving industries, create high employment opportunities and improve national economy. Achimugu said the high point of the national dialogue held in Abuja on Feb. 22 was to appraise the existing policy developed by the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment. He stressed on the importance of policy formulation for the CTG sector to be regulated for optimal performance. According to him, the dialogue was also supported by the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment as well as the European Union to underscore the importance of the sector. He noted that though the industry players were satisfied with the policy already on ground but that implementation was key. “ As industry players we are looking to be the drivers of the policy and implementers of the policy,’’ Achimugu said. Speaking on the CTG Development Forum which was created at the end of their dialogue, Achimugu explained that the forum was borne out of necessity, for effective representation of the entire CTG sector in the country. He said since it was their desire to work together and speak with one voice to move the sector forward and drive national development, they found the need to promote the  forum. “The CTG Development Forum was promoted by actual CTG players, by people who have invested their time and resources, people that actually operate factories, either as ginners, large scale farmers or textile mills. “We have come together to say, look we need to have a body and this body must speak for the entire sector,’’ he said. He maintained that any organisation, institution or government which recognises the importance of the CTG sector and wishes to intervene must pass through the forum. He said establishment of the forum was germane for unity of purpose to enable them instruct organisations, institutions or government agencies on how their interventions should impact on the economy. “That is basically the function of the CTG Development Forum and as I speak with you now, it is under the process of registration with Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC),’’ he said. Achimugu further disclosed that they intended to use the forum as a platform to advocate for the establishment of a CTG Council, or a legislation that would back the activities of the CTG forum. He expressed optimism that this would be impactful in terms of returning the sector back to its glory years.