By Abujah Racheal The African Union/Africa CDC and the West African Health Organization (WAHO), have said that within their respective regions they can take advantage of existing infrastructures rather than build from the scratch, to harmonise, network, and collaborate across the regions. They said this at the opening of a three-days workshop of the Regional Integrated Surveillance and Laboratory Networks (RISLNET), implementation for the West African Region, on Wednesday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that in an effort to address the critical need for comprehensive and quality laboratory and surveillance systems and networks within the continent, Africa CDC established RISLNET for all the African Regions. RISLNET is a network of networks that harness existing public health assets in each of the five African Union regions to strengthen national and regional laboratory and Surveillance systems, improve quality standards and promote networks for integration whilst leveraging the existing assets within the various sub-regions. Speaking at the event, Dr Mohammed Abdulaziz, head of Disease Control and Prevention Division, Africa CDC, said that the goal of the Africa CDC was to, in their own words, ‘safeguard Africa’s health’. Abdulaziz said by achieving this goal on a population level requires three things: clinical acumen to diagnose disease, coordinated laboratory networks to diagnose disease, and an appropriate response to control disease on the region. He said that RISLNET was established to coordinate and integrate all public health laboratory, surveillance and emergency response assets, including public health data, to effectively support prevention, rapid detection and response to current and emerging public health threats within defined geographic regions of Africa. He said that it promotes partnerships and collaboration on public health research, training, knowledge exchange and experience sharing at the regional level in Africa. Mrs. Elsie Ilori, Director, Surveillance and Epidemiology, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said that the NCDC is focusing on health security, which was one of its major calls across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Ilori said that Health security aimed to prevent, detect, and respond to infectious disease threats. “In practice, this is limited to specific activities, including strengthening surveillance systems and improving risk communication. “In 2018, Nigerian authorities began developing the National Action Plan on Health Security (NAPHS) with the signing of the International Health Regulations (IHR),” she said. The NCDC Director said that NAPHS is a comprehensive multi-sectoral document that sets out a strategy for strengthening health security of the country. “Developed by the NCDC in collaboration with other relevant government agencies, NAPHS is a five-year strategic plan to be executed from 2018 to 2022,” she said. While commending the leadership of the regions and partners, the US CDC Nigeria Country Director, Dr Mary Boyd, said that the US CDC would continue to support the efforts of the region to ensure that disease response system is functional, that operations can be properly utilised in the detection and control of diseases. Boyd said that the US CDC hopes that there would also sustainability of those efforts. “I’m happy that the RISLNET is going to be launched in efforts to address the critical need for comprehensive and quality laboratory and surveillance systems and networks within the region which is the foundation,” she said. She also disclosed that the US CDC is supporting the West Africa regional Collaborating Center by establishing a regional information hub to assist the region for a better coordination and sharing of Data and information. “There is no point doing one thing here and not being able to use it across the region,” she said. NAN recalls that the organisers said that the workshop with the Western African Regional Member states will officially launch RISLNET for the region. They said that the focus of the workshop will include to: Officially launch the framework for the governance of the RISLNET in the West Africa region, agree upon the RISLNET structure for the West Africa Regional Collaborating Centre (RCC) and define its functions and operations. It will also introduce Global Health Systems Solutions and the Institut Pasteur, Dakar. will be its partners who will work closely with Africa CDC, WAHO, and the regional member states for RISLNET implementation in the region. The workshop will also discuss and agree on the development draft policy and framework document for RISLNET. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)