By Folasade Akpan AIDS Health Care Foundation (AHF), an NGO, has engaged religious leaders in FCT on building awareness and public trust in the safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccine among its followers. Dr Echey Ijezie, the Country Programme Director, AHF-Nigeria, said this on Wednesday in Abuja during a campaign tagged `Vaccinate Our World’ (VOW), organised by the AHF. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the campaign, which was in collaboration with Nigeria Network of Religious Leaders Living with HIV/AIDS (NINERELA), was to address COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy and global vaccine inequity. Ijezie said the COVID -19 pandemic had crippled the world with devastating consequences, adding that the only preventive measures remain key positive protective behaviours and vaccination. “What the VOW campaign is doing is to ensure that everyone is vaccinated against the COVID-19 virus and we know that the pandemic has really wrecked a lot of havoc across the world. “So we are engaging different actors who have influence, who can reach the grassroots and different communities to ensure that myths and all sources of theories are expelled. “We also want to ensure that everything surrounding vaccine supply, vaccine hesitancy and distribution be addressed, because once everyone is not vaccinated, no one is safe,’’ he said. Speaking on Global Vaccine Inequity, Ms Kemi Gbadamosi, the Director of Advocacy Policy and Marketing, Africa Bureau, AHF, said it was important for religious leaders to add their voice to global COVID-19 vaccine inequities. Gbadamosi highlighted that the current COVID-19 vaccine data shows that 11.53 billion doses have been administered globally, while 65.1 per cent of the world population has received at least one dose. She said only 15.2 per cent of people in low income countries like Nigeria have received at least one dose while 33.3 million are fully vaccinated in Nigeria. “Due to the vaccine inequity that we see, especially when we look at the fact that about 11.53 billion people have been vaccinated globally. “Over 70 per cent of the 11.53 billion people vaccinated are more in the developed countries and only about 15 per cent of Africans are fully vaccinated, and when you look at that you see a huge disparity. “A lot of factors are responsible for this; the fact that African countries are not able to manufacture the vaccines and the lack of technological transfer, among other factors.” Ms Amber Erinmwinhethe, the Executive Secretary, NINERELA, said that religious leaders have a role to play in informing and influencing communities on health matters. Erinmwinhethe stressed that the role of religious leaders in creating awareness, overcoming hesitancy and building confidence among its members cannot be overemphasised. She said such effort must be reinforced more than ever to help build vaccine confidence among the populace. Rev. Bulus Dakuru, the Chairman, Nasarawa State West Senatorial Zone, Karu Local Government Area, Christian Association of Nigeria, in his remarks, called on world leaders to raise 100 billion dollars to secure sufficient doses to vaccinate the world. “100 billion dollars must be pledged to secure enough vaccines to vaccinate the entire world. “Leaders from the G20, and global financial institution such as the International Monetary Fund and World Bank must vow to step up their contributions immediately. Responding on vaccine hesitancy, Dakuru said religious leaders must live by example by taking the vaccine first, before preaching it at the churches or mosques. He said they would ensure leaders enlighten their members on the misconception and misinterpretation surrounding the vaccine, while creating awareness on the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. Mr Musodiq Oladepo, Member, Mission Board Al-habibiyah Islamic Society of Nigeria, called on the world leaders to promote international cooperation, not politics as the driving force for ending the pandemic. “Many nations, including Canada, the U.S, U.K, and European Union have purchased enough vaccines to vaccinate their populations multiple times over. “At a time when the majority of the world has little access to vaccine, nations should establish a framework to ensure the rest of the world can be protected,” he said. Oladepo said as Muslims, the Holy Book teaches that every man obeys Allah, His prophets and those in authority. He urged the leaders to pay attention and address the negative emotions such as fears and anxiety that its members have about the vaccine. Oladepo said the leaders should raise awareness to counter the vaccine manipulation on social media, while appealing to their conscience on the importance of the vaccine.(NAN) (www.nannews.ng)