By David Adeoye Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, on Sunday said the late Alaafin, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, lived a fulfilled and impactful life, “not only in Oyo, but throughout Nigeria”. Makinde, who led top state government functionaries to the Palace of the late Alaafin of Oyo, however, promised to give the late traditional ruler a befitting burial. Adeyemi joined his ancestors on Friday night. According to Makinde, the late traditional ruler lived a fulfilled and impactful life, “not only in Oyo, but throughout the country.” Makinde said that he had been receiving several calls from notable Nigerians since the departure of Oba Adeyemi, indicating that the late Oba was a great man. “In Oyo, we have just lost the last human encyclopaedia of our traditional history and his vacuum will be very difficult to fill. “In fact, I don’t see anybody who can replace this vacuum. “He was always telling the truth; he bluntly told me in 2015 when aspiring to be governor of the state, that it wasn’t possible at that time, because I didn’t have structure. “So, he was a kind of personality that would not hide the truth. “This is a difficult period for us; what we need this time is prayers. I pray that all the good things that baba wished for the state would be fulfilled. The governor appealed to the the Council of Chiefs (Oyo Mesi), and all those that would be involved in the selection of another Alaafin not to delay the process. Makinde, while reacting to insinuations in the social media, in a comical manner, said he was not the one responsible for the deaths of foremost Obas in the state. He explained that the top three Obas that died in the last five months, were riped in age, saying that they have impacted on their people. Makinde listed the traditional rulers as: Oba Jimoh Oyewunmi of Ogbomoso, who died on Dec. 12, 2021; Oba Saliu Adetunji, Olubadan, died on Jan. 2, 2022 and Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, the Alaafin of Oyo, on April 22. Earlier, Bishop Ayo Ladigbolu, on behalf of Oyo Traditional Chiefs, said they were delighted to receive the governor who came to join them in celebrating the late Alaafin. Ladigbolu said that Adeyemi was “a true incarnation of Atiba, the Grand Great King of Oyo Empire”. According to him, Oba Adeyemi died the same month Atiba passed away. (NAN)