By George Odok Chapter Chairmen of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Cross River Southern Senatorial District have unanimously endorsed Mr Joseph Bassey, Deputy Speaker of Cross River House of Assembly for Senate 2023. The Deputy Speaker was endorsed for the National Assembly seat by the Chapter Chairmen of Odukpani, Calabar Municipality, Akpabuyo, Bakassi, Calabar South, Akamkpa and Biase on Wednesday in Calabar. Chapter Chairman of Bakassi, Mr Gerald Esin, who spoke on behalf of the Chairmen, said that Bassey had gained legislative experience over the years, having served as a state lawmaker for three terms. He described the Deputy Speaker “as a man whose popularity cut across the Southern Senatorial District of the state”. He noted that if given another chance in a higher position, he will do much better for the South. “We will not give this senate to someone that will win and elude us; let us give to Joseph Bassey who we know and we are sure he will pick our calls. “The aspiration of the Deputy Speaker would be a good sell for the masses that are keenly waiting for the choice of a good and people oriented candidate. “On behalf of Chapter Chairmen from the South, I want to assure you that we will work with you to ensure that the course of your senate aspiration is achieved,” he said. Responding, Bassey thanked the Chapter Chairmen for finding him worthy of their support ahead of the primaries, adding that it was time to give the people of the south an expanded representation. The lawmaker told the Chapter Chairmen and other critical stakeholders that his legislative experience should be considered as an investment for the South. “My legislative experience should be considered as an investment for the South and should not be wasted on the altar of mediocrity but harnessed for the interest of all,” he said. Some APC stakeholders at the event were; Member representing Calabar South Constituency 1, Mr Okon Ehpriam, Commissioner for Sustainable Development, Mr Oliver Orok and Executive Secretary of Calabar Carnival Commission, Mr Austin Cohbam. Others are, Chairperson of Calabar South local government, Mrs Esther Bassey, Special Adviser to Cross River Government on Afforestation, Mr Cyril Anthony as well as ward chairmen.(NAN)