By Lizzy Okoji A group under the aegis, Northern States Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) have pledged their support to Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi as Nigeria’s president in 2023. Rev. Yakubu Pam, the leader of the association, pledged their support when he led some delegates on a courtesy visit to the governor at the Kogi Government House lodge on Monday in Abuja. He said that they are reckoning with the governor based on his godly qualities and achievements in Kogi, describing him as a man of integrity. Pam who was represented by Rev. Fr. Andrew Dodo, a member of the association, said that they would continue to pray for the governor to become Nigeria’s president in 2023. He described the group as a progressive oriented body with the fundamental aim of enhancing developmental issues that has to do with human lives. “The association gives priority to worthy politicians who adequately and sincerely represented the interest of the people regardless of their faith, colour, origin and language. “One of the greatest burdens of leadership is the distribution of wealth for the purpose it was made for. “We have seen you effectively manage resources and can testify that you are a man of integrity, and the kind of people that our group can reckon with. “We have seen in you a de-tribalised Nigerian, a great friend of the poor, a man with the fear of God, a peace maker, a man that is so close to the youths. “The name Yahaya rings a bell in the political spectrum today due to your track record,” Pam said. Responding, Bello commended the association for the visit and for appreciating his administration’s modest achievement. He ascribed his achievements to God, adding that he would continue to embark on programmes and projects that would continue to uplift the people of Kogi and Nigeria. The governor advised Nigerian youths to be involved in politics so that the country could produce more young governors and the youngest president in 2023. “I wish that come 2023, we will have younger governors in this country and of course, produce the youngest president by the grace of God. “It is only someone that does not appreciate God Almighty that will ascend to this office today and will be carried away by the distractions of the office and not stick to the will of God. “If you stick to the will of God, integrity, honesty, equity, fairness and justice will always guide your way and that is exactly what we are exhibiting in the office. “I will continue to engage in programmes and projects that will satisfy the people of Kogi,” he said. Bello who claimed that the state was hitherto against itself in terms of tribes/ethnicity and religious differences, said that he made all of these a taboo. “We ensured that we adequately accommodated both Muslim and Christian in our administration; today, Kogi has not witnessed any major religious crises since I assumed office,” he said.(NAN)