By Sumaila Ogbaje Gov. Muhammed Badaru of Jigawa has expressed appreciation of the government and people of the state to the Nigerian Army over sacrifices and commitment of troops in tackling banditry and other sundry crimes in the state. The governor, who was represented by his Deputy, Malam Umar Namadi, made the commendation when the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, paid him a visit on Friday in Dutse. The Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, in a statement said the COAS was on operational tour of formations and units in the North West. The governor described the visit as a clear indication of the commitment and resolve of the army to deal with banditry and other forms of criminalities in the region. He further assured the COAS of the support of the government and people of Jigawa in partnering with army and other security agencies in the state to restore normalcy in the region as a whole. Also, the Emir of Dutse, Dr Nuhu Sanusi, expressed appreciation of the Emirate Council to troops of the Nigerian army and other security agencies for their untiring effort in ensuring peace and stability in the state. Sanusi said the people of the emirate were eager to see the Nigerian army troops fully occupying the new barracks being built in the state. He also informed the COAS of the “Justice for All Programme” initiated by the emirate to complement the effort of the army towards ensuring peace. The COAS had earlier explained that he was in the state to assess the needs and challenges of army units and formations especially in ongoing operations. Yahaya called for the support and cooperation of the government and people of the state in the fight against banditry and other criminalities confronting the nation, noting that their support is essential for operational success. He also used the opportunity to express gratitude to the government and people of the state for providing suitable land, where the Nigerian Army is currently building a barracks to further enhance its presence and operations in the state. The COAS also assured the people that the Nigerian army under his command was resolute in dealing with the security challenges bedeviling the nation. The COAS was accompanied on the visit by the Chief of Operations (Army), Maj.-Gen. Olufemi Akinjobi; General Officer Commanding 1 Division, Maj.-Gen. Kabiru Muhktar; Provost Marshal (Army), Maj.-Gen. Robert Aiyenigba; and Chief of Military Intelligence, Maj.-Gen. Ibrahim Salihu. (NAN)