By Salisu Sani-Idris The Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) has commended the Federal Capital Territory Internal Revenue Service (FCT-IRS) for generating N118 billion revenue in 2021. The Head, Corporate Communications FCT-IRS, Malam Mustapha Sumaila made this known in a statement in Abuja on Sunday. The President of the Institute, Mr Adesina Adedayo commended FCT-IRS when he paid a courtesy visit on the Acting Executive Chairman of Service, Mr Haruna Abdullahi. Adedayo, who led a team of tax experts consisting of two former presidents of the institute, executives and members, said the visit was to formally inform and seek for support of the Service on the forthcoming 40th Anniversary of the institute. He said that the visit would enable the institute notify the acting chairman about the 24th Annual Tax Conference scheduled to take place in Abuja and Lagos on Feb. 1 and 5, 2022 respectively. Adedayo expressed joy on the achievements recorded by the FCT-IRS, saying that it was commendable that the service surpassed its target of N109 billion as at the end of November 2021. According to him, it is a laudable feat to attain in spite of the COVID-19 and economic challenges posed on business and revenue generation in the country. The institute’s president whose visit coincided with the last day of a four-day Tax Drive activities organised by FCT-IRS to create awareness, applauded the strategic approach deployed by the Service. He lauded the sensitisation campaign with a road show as an enlightenment strategy which was meant to awaken and increase the tax-paying culture by both individuals and organisations. Adedayo also stated that the institute would be looking forward to more collaboration with FCT-IRS in fostering a better working relationship. He said he would put in place a joint technical committee for the purpose of advancing the revenue performance of the FCT-IRS through peer review and strategy session as well as consultative briefings. In his remark, Dr Kayode Naiyeju, a former President of the Institute and also the former Executive Chairman of Federal Inland Revenue Service, commended the leadership of the FCT-IRS for providing a conducive environment for the tax payers. He said that such an environment would excite those coming around to pay their taxes. “I was excited when I came in to the premises because of how beautiful and well organised it is. Every taxpayer that walks into this building will be happy to have business with FCT-IRS,” Naiyeju said. Responding, Abdullahi reiterated the service’s commitment in partnering with CITN and other relevant organisations to empower the personnel for effective service delivery. He added that he would always welcome any form of partnership that would help to build the capacity of his staff with a view to attaining improved performance in the Service. “FCT-IRS gives much priority to training and I am always willing and welcome any organisation, institute or individual that will collaborate in building the skills and capacities of his personnel,” he said. On the Institute’s 40th Anniversary and Tax Conference, Abdullahi pledged to give necessary support and also mobilise the staff of the Service to participate in the historical events. He expressed happiness over the visit of the CITN delegation led by its president. He noted that FCT-IRS had been in partnership with the institute and would continue to work to sustain such collaboration for the betterment of FCT and the country in general. The acting executive chairman described Naiyeju as a mentor, teacher and expert as far as the field of taxation was concerned, pointing out that being part of the delegation was a big motivation for him and indeed the Service. (NAN)