By Bashir Rabe Mani AlBashir Alhussaini, Nigeria’s Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Morocco was among the 38 envoys that presented their Letters of Credence to King Mohammed VI at the Royal Palace in Rabat on Monday. A statement from the Chancery King on Thursday said that the King requested the ambassador to extend his warmest regards to President Muhammadu Buhari and the entire people of Nigeria. He also assured the envoy of maximum support amd cooperation in discharging his duties as Nigeria’s special envoy during his tenure in Morocco. The king pledged that relations between the Morocco and Nigeria would continue to grow stonger. In his remarks, Alhussaini assured the king that he would convey his regards to the Nigerian leader and the good people of the country. He added that he would do his best possible to boost the existing good ties between the two countries during his stay in the country as an ambassador. In December 2016, Moroccan King Mohammed VI and Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari agreed to establish a gas pipeline between Nigeria and Morocco., which is expected to pass through 11 countries. The length of the project is expected to extend 5,660 km, and pass through several African countries, with the pipeline being developed to reach Europe at a later stage. The pipeline will pass from Benin, Ghana, Togo, Côte d’Ivoire, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Gambia, Senegal, Mauritania and then Morocco, to provide African countries with a source of energy. Morocco said that the project, if completed, would encourage a merger between North and West Africa, as well as achieving energy independence, and accelerating the pace of completion of electricity extension projects. The establishment of economic relations and a real development partnership with the countries of the African continent in various and diverse fields is a priority in the Moroccan’s agenda. The economic relations consist of developing South-South economic and trade relations, with a focus on increasing Morocco’s investment in Africa. In reference to the volume of developing trade relations, it can be recorded that the sales of Moroccan goods in Africa have tripled during the last decade, reaching more than 2.2 billion dollars in 2019. The Kingdom of Morocco signed more than dozens of partnership and cooperation agreements with the countries of the region. The focus was in the fields of communications, banking, insurance, air transport, manufacturing and energy. The proportion of Moroccan investments in Africa reached about 85 per cent of the volume of Moroccan foreign investments, and the increase in trade exchange between Morocco and sub-Saharan countries increased by 68 per cent between 2008 and 2018. This progress made Morocco at the forefront of external investors in the continent. Morocco is now the second largest African investor in Africa after South Africa.(NAN)