By Fortune Abang Israel reassures of plans to deepen diplomatic relations with Nigeria in aspects of economic cooperation. Amb. Michael Freeman, Ambassador of Israel to Nigeria, said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Abuja. Michael, also Permanent Representative of Israel to ECOWAS, commended Nigeria to be a great country, saying potential to achieve a lot. “Nigeria is a wonderful country with wonderful, friendly and hospitable people, there is huge potential between Israel and Nigeria in many different fields, one of them will be in the area of education. “The sky’s the limit; it is up to Nigerians, it is up to Israelis to see potential they have, I think our both countries have so much to learn from each other. “Israel has so much to learn from Nigerians and Nigeria too has so much to learn from Israel, my job is to help connect and think of different areas that can work. “If that will be in education, agriculture, water, in many different areas including the health sector. I will say to anybody in Nigerians, Local, State or the Federal Government or communities. “If there is something or anyways you want to work with Israel, we are happy to work with you as well, to build those bridges,” Michael said. He, however, allayed fears by people thinking that the Bible quiz completion would not continue, owing to COVID-19 pandemic to be wrong. “If the Bible quiz competition is re-established in Israel, after COVID-19 challenges, it will certainly be re-established in Nigeria, we will make sure we expand its scope within Nigeria,” he added. Nigeria-Israel diplomatic relations was established in 1960. NAN reports that since 1992 Israel and Nigeria have enjoyed a friendly and mutually beneficial relationship, with more than 50 Israeli companies investing in Nigerian construction, infrastructure, technology, communications and information technology, agriculture, and water management industries. A Memorandum of Interest (MOU) was signed between the Nigerian and Israeli Ministries of Foreign Affairs in 2006, formalising bilaterial consultations on political issues. This MOU facilitated increased dialogue and cooperation between the two countries on issues of regional and international concern. Economic ties between Israel and Nigeria are promoted by the Nigerian-Israeli Chamber of Commerce and the Israel-Africa Chamber of Commerce. (NAN)