By Victor Okoye Tom Saintfiet, Coach of Gambia, says his team is used to being referred to as ‘underdogs’ ahead of every game they have played in the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon. Saintfiet speaking at a pre-match press conference on Friday in Douala ahead of their quarter-final match against Cameroon, said the hosts are the big favourites, adding, however, that his team would not be intimidated. The News Agency of Nigeria of Nigeria (NAN) reports that debutants Gambia face hosts Cameroon in an unprecedented quarterfinal that promises a lot of excitement on Saturday at the Japoma Stadium in Douala from 4 p.m. “Cameroon, one of the greatest nations in African and even world football, is the big favorite. I give my team a 20 per cent chance, the Gambian coach said. “But we are used to it and since I took office, it has always been the case. We had to fight against stronger teams than us and we managed to get by. “Against Cameroon, we will not be afraid, we will play to the fullest. It’s a bonus match. “We visited Limbé, Bafoussam and now Douala, and we want to continue to Yaoundé,” he said. Gambian Midfielder and hitman Ablie Jallow expressed confidence in the ability of the Scorpions to win the match, adding that they would approach the game with a firm belief of going through to the semis. “It will be a tough match, but we are well prepared to go for the win. “As in previous games, we will put all the assets on our side to pass. “Cameroon will be accompanied by its fans; they are the ones under pressure. “We will play our game with the firm intention of going through,” he said. NAN reports that hosts and five-time champions, the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon, may seem like favourites, but they have to face an emerging force in continental football, The Gambia. The Gambia made it all the way through the qualifiers, starting from the preliminary round, passing a group that had DR Congo, Angola and Gabon. Read also: My young team ready with spirit, determination to defeat Tunisia – Burkina Faso coach Then to the finals, where they have drawn with Mali and beaten Mauritania, Tunisia and Guinea to reach the final eight. Despite feeling the AFCON for the very first time, the Scorpions have shown that Cameroonians cannot even imagine taking them lightly. Led by Belgian Saintfiet, Gambia will look once more to the lethal striking force of Jallow and Moussa Barrow who netted twice each in earlier matches. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)