By Chijioke Okoronkwo Vice President Yemi Osinbajo says the death of Chief Ernest Shonekan is a major loss to the country, private sector and the international community. Osinbajo, who was accompanied by his wife, Dolapo, spoke with newsmen after a condolence visit to the family of the late Shonekan on Sunday in Ikoyi, Lagos. Shonekan died in Lagos on Jan. 11 at the age of 85; he was a statesman, who served as the Head of Interim National Government from Aug. 26, 1993 to Nov. 17, 1993. The vice president was received by Shonekan’s widow, Margaret and son, Adeboye. “I think that it’s a very major loss for the country, for the private sector and even internationally. “Here was a man who made impact; he was one of the first leaders in the private sector to begin to shape economic policy in Nigeria. “His role in that aspect was significant; of course, many of us know that at various times his interventions in many ways defined the way our economic policy was framed or our economic policy was thrown up.” Osinbajo said that late Shonekan was very consequential as a leader in the private sector. “Of course, there is no question at all about the role he played at the very tension filled and uncertain time in the life of the nation, especially as head of the Interim National Government. “I think that when you look at his role from the private sector to statesman, there is no question at all that this was a very unique individual and I believe that his contributions will be evergreen. “We are extremely proud of what he has done; we are extremely proud of his life and times and we pray that his memory will be blessed forever,” Osinbajo said. Read also: Shonekan legacies of patriotism, patience will live on – NGF  The vice president had earlier prayed for the family of the deceased and signed the condolence register. Part of the vice president’s message in the condolence register reads, “we pray that the Lord will comfort the family and may his memory be blessed forever in Jesus name.” (NAN)