By Chinyere Joel-Nwokeoma Mr Lenin Ugoji, the new Group Managing Director/CEO of C & I Leasing Plc, said the company would expand into marine, fleet outsourcing to boost revenue and market share. Ugoji said, at a virtual meeting on Friday in Lagos, that the company would collaborate with other stakeholders to explore available opportunities in fleet and marine business to grow its revenues. “We will look at opportunities in all the business focus of the company, will explore all the available opportunities and will partner other stakeholders to enhance growth,” he said. Ugoji added that the company would explore digital space with its three digital products in fleet management and personnel outsourcing to increase market share. According to him, the company will enhance the GetAJobNG platform to secure more businesses in personnel outsourcing. He said the company would ensure efficient service delivering to all its clients as a service business entity. “C & I Leasing is quite a diversified business and we will be strengthening the company’s operation in the area of operational efficiency,” he said. “We will be doing a lot in improving our technical proficiency and service delivery and also work on our public interaction, we are in a digital age,” Ugoji added. He noted that the COVID-19 pandemic had affected the company’s business substantially, especially in the oil and gas industry. Read also: C & I leasing assures minority shareholders of value enhancement Ugoji said that the company would play more on the digital space due to the emerging opportunities brought by the COVID-19 pandemic. “We should expect to see improved revenue growth in the coming years. “We expect the oil industry to get back on its performance in terms of vessel leasing and other auxiliary services, which will positively impact our organisation. “We also intend to grow our core business of fleet management and outsourcing in looking out for opportunities that we have noticed in the market in the past years. “COVID-19 has brought a changing dynamic in the way businesses are run and C & I is set to transit into tapping into that space,” he said. The C & I Leasing group of companies serves its clients through three divisions; fleet management, outsourcing, and marine services with two subsidiaries in Ghana (Leasafric) and the United Arab Emirates (EPIC International FZE). (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)