By Victor Okoye Kamou Malo, the Coach of Burkina Faso, says his young team are armed with spirit and determination to defeat Tunisia in the quarter-finals of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). Malo, speaking at a pre-match news conference on Friday in Garoua, said this was in spite of the lot of respect his side had for the good and cohesive Tunisian team. The News Agency of Nigeria of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Burkina Faso lock horns with Tunisia in Garoua on Saturday from 8 p.m., as both teams search for a place in the semi-finals of the AFCON. “The next match is qualifying for the semifinals, so it is very difficult. “We have determination to continue the journey and feel the responsibility. Our players are young and have the enthusiasm to win and continue their way. “Tunisia is a good and cohesive team, but our side is armed with spirit and determination,” he said. The coach stressed that his young team were ambitious to write to their own history, adding that the game would not be played on paper, but on the field. “We don’t think about the past, but the present is always more important. “We have a young ambitious team, and we can write our present and future,” he said. Burkina Faso midfielder Adama Guira expressed delight at being in the quarter-finals, adding that he was hopeful that victory on Saturday would help ease the current political tension in his country. “We are delighted to be in the quarterfinals and we can’t wait for the match which will be as a final. All players are focused. “Our victory will contribute to easing things in our country and will make our people happy, and this is what we are striving for. “We have young players, but they are playing at the highest levels in Europe. “The team is well prepared, and we are among the best in the tournament. We keep improving game after game,” he said. We’ll treat Burkina Faso as strongest candidates for title, Tunisia coach says NAN reports that although the team had not won the AFCON before, Burkina Faso team are seen as one of the traditional teams in the tournament. The Stallions are still dreaming of a first historical trophy, after finishing runners-up for the 2013 edition in South Africa. They also won third place in their last participation in Gabon 2017, then missed the last edition in Egypt 2019. Burkina Faso will be armed with history against Tunisia, as this is the third time both teams face in the quarterfinals. The Burkinabe won the two previous matches, at home in 1998 and in Gabon 2017. Having finished second in Group A, Burkina Faso needed a penalty shootout to overtake Gabon and reach the quarterfinals. Halfway towards the most prominent continental championship title, the Stallions would be striving to move forward. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)