By Emmanuel Afonne The Arewa Youth Federation (AYF) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to disregard calls for sack of the Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) Malam Ahmed Rufa’i. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Arewa Youth Groups (AYG) had called for the sack of the NIA director-general. A statement issued on Thursday by the convener of the Group, Kabiru Muhammed said the appointment of the NIA boss was the exclusive prerogative of the president. Muhammed said the call for the sack of the NIA boss was ill-timed and sponsored by the enemies of the country to distract the agency, especially now the security agencies were recording tremendous success against terrorism and banditry. “Only the president has all the security information at his disposal to make informed decision as to who to be appointed in any position in the country, most especially in the security formations. “President Buhari is determined to end insurgency, banditry and other forms of criminality in the country, as such, he knows who to appoint within the security architecture to drive his vision of a secured Nigeria. “We wonder if the Arewa Youth Groups thinks the job of the director-general of NIA is a political appointment where they expect Rufa’I to come to the press and reel out his achievements. “For the avoidance of doubt, the NIA oversees foreign intelligence and counterintelligence operations,” Muhammed said. He noted that the security architecture in the country was beginning to witness the most formidable Inter agency collaboration due to the role played by the NIA. This collaboration he said saw the killing of senior BokoHaram/ISWAP leaders as well as the arrest of informants and logistics suppliers of the terrorists. Muhammed also said that thousands of terrorists have surrendered to the Military in the last few months, adding that the development was an indication that the Rufa’I was not resting on his oars to ensure the security and lives of Nigerians. “We are tempted to believe that the Arewa Youth Groups are sponsored by enemies of the country and war against insurgency. “What other explanation do they need more than the explanation by the National Security Adviser, Major Gen. Mungonu, that the appointment of Mr Ahmed Rufa’i as the NIA boss met the provisions of the National Security Agencies Act 1986 (Cap 278 LFN). “The Arewa Youth Groups must understand that security issues are not discussed in the press, rather, intelligence is gotten, analysed and appropriate actions taken. “Ahmed Rufa’i remains the most effective director-general of NIA and the latest attack on him is an unnecessary distraction that Mr President must reject. “The focus and determination among the security agencies and formation must be sustained to win the war against insurgency,” Muhammed added.