By Victor Okoye Tunisia’s Assistant Coach, Jalel Kadri, says they would treat their opponents as the strongest candidates for the 2021 AFCON title. Speaking ahead of their quarter-finals clash with Burkina Faso at the 2021 AFCON, Kadri told a pre-match press conference on Friday, in Garoua, that his team had to think with that mentality, if they intended to go far in the tournament. The News Agency of Nigeria of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Saturday’s encounter between Burkina Faso and Tunisia would take place at the Stade Roumdé Adjia in Garoua, Cameroon from 8 p.m. “Most of the teams that were candidates to play the quarterfinals are no longer here, and this indicates the strength of the competition. “All the teams in the quarterfinals are on the same level. We respect all the teams, and we will treat Burkina Faso as the strongest candidates for the title. “We have to think with that mentality if we want to get far,” Kadri, who represented Head Coach Mondher Kebaier, at the press conference, said. Kadri noted that the strength of his team was in its collective spirit, adding that he was confident the players would play their various roles in the game to ensure victory. “The solidarity of the players and technical staff is what made us overcome the difficult circumstances and we do not have the luxury now to provide a level lower than the last match. “We know that the match will be difficult in all aspects, but we will deal with it appropriately. “I have confidence in all the players and each of them has a role in the game,” he said. Team Captain, Wahbi Khazri also reiterated the collective strength of the team, adding that they were fully focused and ready to show the world what they can offer. “Our weapon and source of strength has always been our collective and victorious spirit. We are happy with what we did against Nigeria, and we will continue to do the same against Burkina Faso. “Against Nigeria we showed our ability to win. We appreciate Burkina Faso very much because they are a very good team. “We are in full focus. In football, we do not underestimate anyone, but we will show the world what we have,” he said. Read also: We didn’t deserve to lose to Tunisia, Eguavoen says NAN reports that despite qualifying with one win and two defeats, and among the best third-placed teams in the group stage, Tunisia team rebounded to clinch victory in the Round of 16 against Nigeria. They achieved a precious lone goal victory that secured their place in the quarterfinals. This time, the Carthage Eagles hope to continue the dream, and reach the semifinals for the second time in a row, after they finished fourth in their last AFCON participation in Egypt 2019. The Tunisians rely on experience of stars, Youssef Msakni and Wahbi Khazri, hoping that the return of absentees to the team would add new strength in a tough match. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)