By Stephen Adeleye The Kogi State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), has commended Gov. Yahaya Bello over the massive infrastructural development, especially in Lokoja metropolis, and in other parts of the state. The council made the commendation in a communiqué issued at the end of the maiden 2022 Congress, held on Saturday at the NUJ Press Centre, Lokoja. The communiqué which was jointly signed by the council’s Chairman and Secretary, Mr Adeiza Momohjimoh, and Mr Seidu Ademu respectively, specifically commended the governor for the construction of the Lokoja Civic Center and Ganaja junction flyover, as ell as township roads, among others, describing them as legacy projects. The congress, however, stressed the need for government to urgently pay attention to some roads that are in bad condition in Lokoja metropolis. Such roads included: Lokoja-Zango-Kabba junction road, Zone 8 round about to House of Assembly road as well as the Mount Patti road, among others. The council expressed appreciation to Bello and the Kogi State Government for providing members the conducive atmosphere to operate. The congress particularly thanked the Governor and a media aide for ensuring Christmas package for members. The council also commended the government for ensuring the smooth take off and running of the Lokoja Mega terminal which has modernised the transport system in the state. The congress enjoined the state government to, as a matter of urgency, do all within its reach to revive the state-owned Radio (FM 94.1) which had gone off air for months. It applauded the state government’s recent approval for the provision of the Radio transmitters to be viciously followed with action and with similar attention to the Graphics Newspaper. The council also urged the government to also provide alternative means of transportation for the populace before enforcing the ban on tricycles and motorcycle operators from plying the highways. The council also resolved to comply with the national directive of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) over the non implementation of the new minimum wage in the state. The council, however expressed its willingness to await further directive of the NLC in the state after serving the government due notice. The council assured of members’ participation in the proposed one-day national protest on January 27, 2022, called by the NLC over the planned hike in the price of petrol. The congress admonished members to take issues concerning themselves more seriously and passed a vote of confidence on the state’s Chairman of NUJ, Alhaji Adeiza Momohjimoh, for transparent leadership. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ASA/VAO