The Vice-Chancellor of University of Maiduguri, Prof. Aliyu Shugaba, says the institution has developed various academic programmes to help in tackling insecurity. Shugaba made this known when he featured at the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) forum in Abuja. He said that the region had faced the problems of insecurity in the last 12 years, noting that on assumption into office in 2019, he was able to safeguard the school environment. According to him, the past two and half years have been eventful in the university with the achievement here and there. “We have been able to record some successes even in difficult areas. “I want to say that one of our greatest challenges in the past 12 years is the problem of insecurity,” he said. He also said that he ensured that all reports that had been submited to the federal government on the issue of security and the perimeter fencing of the school were followed up. `’ I was so lucky the Federal Executive Council (FEC) gave approval for the funding to construct the fence and also to put up some security gadgets within the campus of the university. “ This is to be able to handle the insecurity issue that is always bedeviling us. “The security gadgets have been mounted successfully and we are using them to monitor certain things,’’ he said. Shugaba said that owing to the challenges of insecurity, the institution began the processes of development projects, infrastructure and academic development. According to him, so many projects including classrooms, students’ hostels and road constructions have sprung up within the university. The vice-chancellor appreciated well-meaning Nigerians for their roles in development projects within the school environment. He commended Alhaji Mohammed Indimi, the founder of Oriental Energy Resources and Alhaji Abdulsamad Rabiu, Chairman of BUA Group for the construction of innovation centres in the institution. According to Shugaba, there are ongoing projects such as the one donated by the chairman of BUA, costing more than N1 billion to construct a centre for innovation and other things. “We also have come up with centre for the study of violent extremism; we have also come up with an expanded centre for energy research and training. “We have come up with so many programmes, including B.Sc Biotechnology, B.Sc Nutrition and Dietetic and many other degree programmes we feel are necessary for the university. “We came up with a faculty of environmental studies looking at bringing on board Architecture, Building engineering and many other programmes. “ Most importantly too, we have got some intervention projects from even individuals and agencies such as the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation that gave the whole Department of Oil and Gas Engineering. “Individuals like Alhaji Mohammed Indimi has also given us a structure that will now house Centre for Distance Learning as well as the Business School and our affiliated colleges,’’ he said. He promised that other projects embarked on by the institution would soon be completed.(NAN)