By Fortune Abang The Managing Director of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Mr Buki Ponle, has reiterated commitment to prioritise sporting activities to boost physical fitness of staff in the agency. Ponle said this on Wednesday in Abuja when he played host to the NAN sports team led by Mr Adesanya Adetokumbo at the Boardroom of the agency. He commended the team for their individual efforts to have emerged second at the 2021 Sport Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN), FCT-Week football competition and the 2021 Chinese/FCT-NUJ Table Tennis Tournament, respectively. “Today is another day of joy for us, because of the victories we have recorded; therefore, management congratulates the sports team for making NAN proud. “I know sports events took the pride of place in NAN, it is not that it has died but it is not where it should be. “Otherwise nobody has capacity to beat NAN men and women in the field of play; I will ensure that we take sports back to where it belongs. “I will ensure that we kit-up our Footballers, Table Tennis players and every other sports man and woman, to perform better and to win laurels for us. “Henceforth, attention will be to overhaul the sporting facilities we have, so that when you use them and practice, we will be sure that you will get the best for us. “No only that, whenever you are going for any competition, we will mobilise everybody in NAN, particularly those in Abuja or wherever such an event is happening, to support you wholeheartedly,” Ponle said. He said although there were perceived financial challenges, such was not peculiar to NAN alone; assuring that the management will ensure judicious use of minimal resources at its disposal to achieve targets. He further promised to make the best of the available resources to provide the best facilities for staff of the agency. “We will provide you the best we can, in terms of jerseys, football and all facilities that you are going to use, by God’s grace. “The other important thing that we want to do is to constitute a committee to work on areas that will promote sporting events in NAN, you have laboured and you must be rewarded. “It is based on the interest that you had, you progressed to this point, even when we did not support you, now that we are going to do that your productivity will definitely be enhanced. “We are giving you a handsome donation to support you and other things that are attached to sports in NAN; just for a start, we are giving you N300,000. “We believe that by motivating you will get you to a higher pedestal and when next you are presenting trophies it will be in the first category,” the managing director said. He further expressed appreciation to the team for the laurels they had won and reassured them of the management’s support at any point in time. Earlier, Adetokumbo said that the visit was aimed at presenting the success stories by the team to the management and also to appeal for support for better sporting performance in 2022. According to him, although we emerged first in the past Table Tennis tournament, we were unable to retain our position in the 2021 competition, therefore, the need for management support. “I want management to help us bring back sport activities; we have a volleyball court, table tennis board here, but they are not functional. “The person in charge of the gym often complain that the gym facilities needed to be overhauled, we want management to look into it, to enable us to revive sports,” Adetokumbo said. The high point of the event was the presentation of trophy and laurels by Adetokumbo to Ponle. (NAN)