By Perpetua Onuegbu A group, Junior Chamber International (JCI), has called on citizens to nominate 10 outstanding persons for awards in any area of endeavour both locally and internationally. The President of the group, Mr Olawale Bakare, made the call at a news conference in Abuja . Bakare, represented at the conference by Mr Attairu Abdullah, General Legal Counsel for 2022, called on all citizens to participate in the nomination process by nominating youths that are doing exemplary things that could be showcased at the global level. He added that the organisation, with a membership of about 5,000, aims to transform passionate people to capable young leaders in the society through trainings, projects, events and programmes. “We feel there is the need to identify people doing well in different areas of life and get them exposed to the world. “This is done in stages, as the award – Ten Outstanding Youths Persons (TOYP), Nigeria – is to identify 10 outstanding young persons who have done exceedingly well through public votes. “We intend to get them recognised in Nigeria and also get them to compete at the global stage with other outstanding people in other countries in JCI world congress,” Bakare said. He further said that the JCI is determined to build young enterprising leaders empowered to transform the society. He urged the government to partner with the organisation so that the benefit of the award would be amplified. The Chairperson, 2022 JCI Nigeria, TOYP, Miss Olabunmi Ajayi, said the individuals finally selected would exemplify the spirit of the JCI Mission, and would be between the ages of 18 and 40. According to her, the nomination exercise commences on Sunday, January 23, 2022, and advised citizens to nominate their candidates through www.toyp.jci.ng/nomination. Ajayi added that the nominations would be on for 30 days across the globe. Read also: Group urges youths to shun rape, child sex abuses Also at the conference, the President of JCI Aso, Mr Oladipupo Abayomi, speaking on what the organisation is doing to engage youths on the forthcoming elections, said they were planning on sensitising the youths. “Sensitising them on the importance of making the right choice for the country, for development and growth of the nation. “Our main objective is to first impact our immediate environment by involving the youths in programmes that enhance their skills and then escalate it further,” Abayomi said. The final 10 TOYP nominees will be honored during the 2021 JCI Nigeria TOYP Award and JCI World Congress proposed to be done on the International Youth Day. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)