By Victor Okoye The Confederation of African Football (CAF) on Sunday said it has unanimously agreed to lift the suspension on the Olembé Stadium in Yaounde, Cameroon. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that CAF had announced the suspension of matches at the stadium following a tragic incident at the venue. The incident had occurred during the fixture between hosts Cameroon and Comoros on Monday in a round of 16 tie of the ongoing 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). A total of 38 persons sustained varying degrees of injuries and eight supporters lost their lives at the stadium during the stampede. A statement by CAF on Sunday said the decision to lift suspension on the stadium followed a meeting of the CAF AFCON Organising Committee. This was after the receipt of the report on the tragedy which occurred at the stadium. “The President of CAF, Patrice Motsepe, having convened a meeting of the CAF AFCON Organising Committee, received the report compiled by CAF Safety and Security Department together with COCAN. “The report was in relation to the circumstances with regard to the tragedy that occurred at the Olembé Stadium. “The report highlighted the extensive on-site meetings and discussions which were held with senior representatives of the police, the gendarmerie, the military, together with high-ranking Cameroonian Government, Defence, and Police Ministers, inclusive of the Governor of Yaoundé and other stakeholders. “The report dealt with and highlighted the tragic circumstances which led to 38 people being injured and eight fatalities. “The report further highlighted the recommendations and interventions to ensure that a tragedy of this nature should never be repeated,” the statement said. It added that the CAF Organising Committee unanimously agreed to lift the suspension imposed on the stadium following recommendations and undertakings from the Cameroonian Government. “We note the recommendations and undertakings from Government in regard to additional security provisions over and above those which were already successfully implemented at the Ahmadou Ahidjo Stadium during the Morocco and Malawi match and at the Japoma Stadium during the Gambia and Cameroon match, “Following this, the CAF Organising Committee unanimously agreed to lift the suspension imposed on the Olembé, Stadium and allow one of the AFCON Semi-Finals as well as the Final Match to take place at the Olembé Stadium. “In conclusion, CAF, the Local Organising Committee and the Government of Cameroon having significantly increased security and resources at the Olembé Stadium, are confident that the safety and security of spectators and visitors will be assured,” it said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)