President Muhammadu Buhari has charged Nigerian engineers to partner with the federal government for the rapid infrastructure development of the country.   The president said this during the investiture ceremony of the 33rd national president and chairman-in-council of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), Tasiu Gidari-Wudil, on Saturday in Abuja.   “If we must make progress as a nation, the government and Nigerian engineers must partner for the rapid infrastructural development of the country,” the president said.   The president, who was represented by the minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Ogbonnaya Onu, said the present administration has made significant progress in the infrastructural development of the country.   “We have made significant progress in railway transportation to link various parts of our federation,” he said.   Former President Goodluck Jonathan, who was the special guest of honour at the event, thanked the NSE for inviting him to their events.   “This is the second time in barely one and a half months that I would be taking part in NSE events, here in Abuja. The first time was in December 2021, where I was represented at my younger brother, Azibaola Robert’s Investiture as honorary Fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (FNSE).   “I know that the Society was inspired to honour Mr Robert because of his considerable contributions to the development of engineering and the technological development of Nigeria through the activities of Zeetin Engineering, which he founded.”   Jonathan charged Nigerian engineers on renewable energy and review of Nigeria’s engineering curriculum.   He said: “If we diligently apply ourselves to developing alternative and renewable energy sources, we will become a force to be reckoned with in this regard, considering that we have abundant all-year-round sunshine, several kilometres of ocean coastline and different bodies of water with significant waves, currents and wind.”   He advised the NSE to “pay special attention to the teaching of engineering in schools to ensure that its curriculum is constantly retooled in tune with the changing needs of modern society.”   He reminded the engineers of their responsibilities to ensure the overall development of the nation.   “Our nation is at a crossroads; a point of decision requiring urgent action in the areas of technological advancement, industrial revolution and national rebirth.   “I believe that our engineers hold the key to our economic and technological advancement, be it in the prevailing information technology and knowledge industry or in the conventional brick and mortar infrastructural development.   “Therefore, our engineers should take the lead in the push for sustainable growth in the nation’s development impetus.”   Speaking on the sidelines of the ceremony, the founder of Zeetin Engineering, Azibaola Robert, charged Gidari-Wudil to throw his weight behind regulation on materials, code of practice in engineering, amongst others,   “Give energy and bite to the practice of mechanical engineering, to create things in the automobile, aeronautic, electrical, renewable energies and more. It is only this way that Nigeria can become a force at the world stage.”   In his inaugural speech, Gidari-Wudil promised to “ensure the continued future growth of the Society, sustain all existing relationships with international engineering organisations, as well as pursue all mutually beneficial aspects to the NSE, while exploring other new partnerships.”   He solicited the support of the federal government and all Nigerian engineers as well as their foreign counterparts, to ensure Nigeria’s candidate emerged as the president of the World Federation of Engineering Organisations (WFEO) in an election due in March.   “Our unflinching and dedicated support for his election will make him the first black African to become the President of the WFEO,” Gidari-Wudil said.(NAN)