By Ibironke Ariyo The Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS) has unveiled plans to forestall jail breaks, attacks and boosts the welfare of staff and inmates across all custodial centres. The Controller General, NCoS, Mr Haliru Nababa, said this in his New Year message to the staff and inmates on Friday in Abuja. Nababa appreciated all officers and men of the NCoS for working tirelessly under challenging conditions to ensure total delivery of the service’s mandate in previous years. He said that the present administration was highly concerned on the well-being of citizens, including those behind bars. The C-G also said that the country was challenged with a lot of security issues resulting in a series of external jail attacks. According to him, this trend is quite alarming as it threatens the sovereignty and prosperity of our nation. “However, we are not resting on our oars to ensure that we stem the tide and put to shame all enemies of the state. “As we face the year 2022, we shall consolidate on the gains so far made and device better means of surmounting all challenges. “We will continue to rally the support from both state and non-state actors, and members of the public to overcome the challenges. “While I work hard to ensure that all officers and men are well equipped and favourably disposed to discharge their duties, there shall be no room for indolence,” he said. Nababa noted that the new era of corrections had placed on the staff a higher call to duty that demands absolute commitment, attitudinal change and value re-orientation. According to him, leveraging the already established legacies of my predecessors, I have emphasised this drive by inaugurating a Performance Assessment Team. He said that the team was inaugurated to monitor compliance to policy directives and project implementation strategies. Nababa said that the team, among others, was also to pay close attention to inmates feeding in terms of quality and quantity of food served. He added that it would also monitor inmates accessibility to basic healthcare; as well as availability of recreational facilities in all Custodial Centres. He said: “Therefore, we intend to revive our industries and strengthen our Farm Centres to enhance inmates training and value reorientation. “We will also strive to encourage the virtues of discipline, hard work and dedication among personnel for greater motivation. “Furthermore, a quarterly performance assessment form has been made available to monitor inmates court attendance, vocational training, educational opportunities and other Psycho-Social support programmes. “I will ensure judicious use of available resources and facilitate the speedy implementation of our new law through massive advocacy, sensitisation, synergy and strategic leadership. “We pledge our commitment to actualising our statutory mandate with every sense of responsibility. We owe our country the best and that remains our commitment, “he said. The NCoS boss commended all the development partners, stakeholders, Non Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and members of the press for their support and partnership in past years. He called for more robust working relationship in the year ahead, adding that there was no sacrifice too great for one’s country. (NAN)