By George Edomwonyi Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, on Saturday, tasked traditional rulers to entrench religious and ethnic tolerance in their domains to foster peace and unity in Nigeria. Osinbajo made the call during the conferment of a chieftaincy title; the Oduma (Lion) of Auchi, on the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba, by the Otaru of Auchi, HRH Alhaji Aliru Momoh, Ikelebe III. Osinbajo said peace and unity is the only way the country can develop. Osinbanjo commended the Otaru for fostering peace and unity in Auchi community and urged other traditional rulers to emulate him. According to the vice president, the NYSC symbolises unity having served as a corp member in Auchi, in 1979. “The compulsory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) symbolises that Nigerians should accommodate all irrespective of ethnic or religious background. “Like in the case of Agba who is from Uzanu in Etsako East but found a home in Auchi when he was only two years old. “The Auchi kingdom has its rich and special history and a celebrated innovation and enterprise of its sons and daughters has brought development and prominence to this kingdom and Edo State. It is remarkable and worthy of praise that in the great Auchi Kingdom, adherence of both major religions in Nigeria, Islam and Christianity, have lived and continue to live harmoniously together for centuries sharing a common bond as members of this community and even of the same biological families. “Auchi is therefore in a real sense not just the microcosm of Nigeria, but also an exemplification of our finest values of mutuality and community. “Our country needs men and women who see and understand that our ethnic diversities is not a point of difference, of men and women who understand that all people, regardless of ethnicity and faith, deserves to be treated equally fairly and justly. “And this is where the significance of the traditional institution comes to be because they are regarded and rightly so as the custodians of these values and embodied and the highest and noblest ideals of the people,” he said. On his part, Agba said the conferment is an appreciation and encouragement for him to continue to offer more services to humanity. He commended the Edo State Government for continuing 10 erosion check programmes across the state,  which he said were started when he was the Commissioner for Environment under the administration of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. He appealed that the Benin Water Storm Project which they also started should not be abandoned. Among dignitaries at the colourful event were the Minister of Finance Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, her Transportation counterpart, Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of State for Labour, Festus Keyamo, Minister of State for Power, Engr. Abubakar Aliyu, Minister of Youths and Sports, Sunday Dare, Accountant General of the Federation, Auditor General of the Federation, several other political appointees and government officials. Others are the former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Deputy Governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu, who represented the state governor, traditional rulers, led by the representative of the Oba of Benin. (NAN)