By Angela Atabo Yanmo Online Coaching Academy (YOCA), a Non Governmental Organisation (NGO) says it plans to train Nigerians on developmental ideas by changing their mindset towards sustainable economic development. Ms Adetula Yanmo, the Chief Executive Officer, YOCA, said this at a pre-master class news conference in Abuja on Tuesday. Yanmo said that the training was necessary for the nation to attain sustainable economic development, as it was necessary for citizens to work on their mindsets for development to take place. She said that most Nigerians were held back from achieving a lot in their lives because of limiting beliefs and mindsets, saying it was imperative to build their capacities to align with developmental ideas. She said that the master class was aimed at demystify and shifting the minds of people to be more positive in thinking. “So if you do not think in the right way ,you are not going to produce the right results. “Human beings make the economy ,so if the human beings minds are not right ,the economy cannot be changed at all so you need to have the right mindset for economies to be changed . “Human beings make the nation, human beings make organisations ,it is what you put in the organisations that you get out and it starts with the mind. “So the master class will look at areas of identity, mindset, limiting believes ,confidence ,consistency, focus as well as vision and clarity,” she said. Yanmo said that the master class would be organised in collaboration with the Albino Foundation to aid in transforming the lives of many people who sat around not knowing what to do or how to go about it. She said that the organisation was interested in youths but would also get in touch with as many other organisations as possible to leverage and help everybody. She added that 10 slots would be given to Persons With Disabilities(PWDs) and there would be discount for early birds. “The master class is scheduled to hold this Saturday Jan. 29, 2022 at 9.m. at the Wall Paper world Centre, and people can contact us at www.yanwoonle.com for the Amplified Master class,” she said. Executive Director, the Albino Foundation, Jake Epelle thanked YOCA for the partnership and for extending kindness to persons with disabilities. “It is a welcome development and we are grateful to YOCA for giving us slots; the master class is about transformation and we hope Nigerians will leverage it.’’ Some of the experts interviewed expressed optimism that the master class would go a long way to change the thought patterns of Nigerians to more productive. One of the expert, Mrs Celina Unogwu, the founder, Celina Unogwu Visioning Academy, said that the master class would serve a strategic time for individuals to plan for the year. According to Unogwu, planning is very key in everything but it is not very common in Nigeria for people to plan, so the class would help in teaching people planning . Mrs Enya Epelle, Master Class Convener and Mind Coach, said that Nigeria was faced with developmental challenges because a lot of people were not fully engaging their minds and their thoughts. “If you look around you, you will notice that the outcome of a life is determined by the way we think and as a country, as families, as individuals we are where we are because these factors seems to be missing. “So in the master class, you are going to learn quite a lot of things, it is a great opportunity to start this year so that we are not living our lives in the same pattern,” she said. (NAN)