Azibaola Robert, cousin to former President Goodluck Jonathan, has confirmed the kidnap of Jephthah Yekorogha, who he described as elder brother. This is contained in a statement by Robert, on Thursday in Abuja and issued by his media aide, Mr Austin Ekehide. He said that Yekorogha, a prominent politician and businessman in his 50s, was kidnapped at gunpoint, in front of his house at Biogbolo, Yenagoa by four gunmen and forced into their vehicle. Robert said the statement became necessary to clarify the situation of things due to numerous calls to the family to confirm the kidnap. “Our elder brother, Mr Jephthah Robert Yekorogha, was kidnapped at about 8.30pm on Monday, 24th January, 2022, in front of his house gate at Biogbolo, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, by four gunmen in black uniform, who, at gun point, seized him in his car and forced him into their vehicle and zoomed off. “This incident was reported to the law enforcement agencies immediately it happened and is receiving maximum attention. “We want to thank all well meaning Nigerians who by way of calls, text messages and visits have stood by us since the incident occurred. We ask for the support of the public on any lead for the quick release of our brother. “We appeal to the abductors of our brother to immediately release him unconditionally, without harm; and turn a new leaf for the peace, security and prosperity of Bayelsa State,” the statement said. Information about Jephthah’s abduction had been sketchy, but a spokesman for the State Police Command Asinim Butswat, a Superintendent of Police (SP), confirmed the incident. Butswat said: “He was picked up at Dimrose Road in Yenagoa. We are intensifying effort to rescue him and arrest the kidnappers. We are working on a promising lead.” The kidnapping of Jonathan’s cousin happened barely 24 hours after the Bayelsa State Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investment, Federal Otokito was released by his abductors. Otokito was whisked away on Jan. 20 from his residence in his community, Otuokpoti in the Ogbia Local Government Area of the state.(NAN)