By Sylvester Thompson Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, the Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation (STI), says Nigeria’s future is bright and promising with STI. He said his prediction was based on knowledge of how past ancestors dominated their environment using science, technology and innovation. The Minister said this at the inauguration of Inter-Ministerial Committee for Nigeria Science, Technology and Innovation Television (ScienceTV@NG) in Abuja on Monday. “Our ancestors used locally-available materials for their food and nutrition, drugs and medicine, building of houses, among so many other things. “We want our young people to be proud of our past, we want them to become creative, inventive and innovative, just as their ancestors were,’’ Onu said. He maintained that STI remained a driving force of growth and development which was evident in developed nations which deployed and utilised STI for nation building. The minister expressed optimism that Nigeria would achieve such level of greatness with sufficient advocacy from informed Nigerians and through the medium provided by STI television to educate Nigerians. According to him, the television programmes will cover every aspect of the nation’s national life including engineering, health and medicine, natural science, environment and wild life. Other aspects are children’s curiosity, science and society, agriculture, innovations, scientific heritage and science policy. “In order to achieve this, we will use interactive and latest formats such as documentaries, discussions, demonstrations and experimental shows, quizzes, game shows, science fiction among others. “ScienceTV@NG will also focus on Nigeria’s contributions to science and technology by publishing latest research outputs and products from all research institutes as well as latest STI developments around the world. “The television programme will also go into the past and show that our ancestors embraced science, technology and innovation in their day to day activities,’’ Onu said. The Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Mr Edet Akpan, who is Chairman of the Committee, remarked that its responsibilities were to specifically define the terms of reference of the committee. Others are to create framework for content development and production, develop detailed concept note and business plan for the television as well as define objectives among others. Members of the committee include three directors of the ministry, representatives of departments and agencies in the ministry, other agencies and Social Sciences Academy of Nigeria among others. (NAN)