By Victor Okoye Super Eagles Captain, William Troost-Ekong says the confidence of the team is growing with each game at the ongoing 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon. Troost-Ekong who was the man-of-the-match told newsmen during a post-match conference that the team was  still a work in progress, adding that the team is improving with every game. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nigeria’s Super Eagles on Wednesday in Garoua advanced in style to the knockout phase of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon. They beat Guinea-Bissau 2-0 at the Stade Roumde Adjia to become the only side at this 33rd edition of the competition to win all their three group games. NAN also reports that winners of groups A, B and C who had advanced earlier failed to win all their three games. “When you think about the games, for us as winners, the key is to try to improve every time. “We are not perfect and of course, we make mistakes but I think the biggest thing is that you want to improve every time. “I am very happy that the coach and crew gave me the confidence again to play and I am trying to pay them back for that. “But more importantly, it is about the team and I think the confidence of the team is growing,” he said. He expressed delight at the team’s performance, adding that the players showed that they deserved to play. ”First of all, I am very happy for the team. We said before the game that we wanted to do something special. “We wanted to get three out of three wins and to really make a statement “So, I am really proud of the boys. I think everybody performed exceptionally well. “It wasn’t easy with eight changes and all the boys that came in showed that they deserve to play as well and that was probably the biggest message from the game,” he said. Read also: People begining to respect Super Eagles, say Coach Eguavoen Ekong noted that there were many questions about him and the team’s chances coming into the tournament, adding however that the team’s performance on the pitch had vindicated them. “I am very happy that I have been able to contribute as much as I can so far. I think that is the beauty of football. “In November and December, I was criticised and  still I  am. You know that’s our job. It was not only about me before the tournament started. “There were also a lot of question marks about Nigeria’s chances and I feel we have enjoyed the position as the underdogs. “We just take it game by game and I think we do a lot of talking on the pitch now,” he said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)