By Ijeoma Olorunfemi The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), says it will organise editions of its national Hackathon challenge in three states. The three states are Adamawa, Oyo and Cross River. Mrs Hadiza Umar, Head, the Corporate Affairs and External Relations of the agency, who made this known in a statement on Monday in Abuja, said the gesture was to drive digital innovation and entrepreneurship in the country. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that NITDA Hackathon challenge is a national event held in collaboration with academic institutions. The aim is to drive digital innovation and entrepreneurship targeted at challenging Nigerian youths to ideate and develop solutions from inception through commercialisation process. Umar said the challenge, expected to hold this month, would be coordinated by its subsidiary, the National Centre for Artificial Intelligence (NCAIR). In Adamawa, she said the first edition would hold in Modibbo Adama University of Technology, Yola, from Jan. 18 to Jan. 20, the second edition would be in the University of Ibadan from Jan. 25 to Jan. 27. According to her, the third edition is expected to hold at the University of Calabar, Cross River from Jan. 31 to Feb. 2. “The hackathon is set to develop and grow a global network of IT experts, comprising Nigerian youths within the country and in the diaspora. “It is targeted at inculcating entrepreneurship spirit in academia, creating a platform where industry and public institutions will leverage the academic research ecosystem to solve national challenges using technology. “This year, the focus is on agriculture, security and logistics,” she said. According to her, the challenge is open to all students, entrepreneurs and innovators, while the successful startups’ groups in each category will be awarded cash prizes and will have the opportunity to develop their idea further for commercialisation with NITDA’s support. She urged interested Nigerian youths to visit the link: https://bit.ly/32FshGF. The NCAIR is one of NITDA’s special purpose vehicles created to promote research and development on emerging technologies and their practical application in areas of national interest. NCAIR is also focused on creating a thriving ecosystem for innovation-driven entrepreneurship (IDE), job creation, and national development. (NAN)