By Emmanuel Mogbede Chief Anthony Ndanenu, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta, has said that Ndokwa area of the state was set to liberate itself from neglect and gross marginalisation come 2023.   He said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Abuja, noting that the area had been grossly neglected by the Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa-led Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration.   According to Ndanenu, the PDP-led Delta Government had not only neglected Ndokwa, but had short changed its indigenes in terms of political appointments.   “The PDP has reduced our people to glorified Special Assistants and conquered ethnic nationalities,” he said.   He decried the lack of infrastructural development and poor living condition in the area occasioned by neglect from the Local and State Government, in spite of its natural resources endowment.   He said APC stakeholders in Ndokwa East had vowed to change the narrative by working as a team to emancipate the area from greed and marginalisation.   Ndanenu, however said that peace and unity among members of the APC in Delta and in Ndokwa East especially, was critical to enthrone an APC government in the state in 2023 to attract the needed development to the area.   He, therefore, called on members of the party in the area to shun all forms of bickering and embrace peace and unity in the interest of all.   He expressed gratitude to the people of Ndokwa for supporting the APC in Delta, adding that they were all determined to abandon the PDP.   Ndanenu, who recently played host to some notable politicians in Ndokwa East, said the area was blessed with politicians that could move the state forward in terms of development and good governance.   “With the calibre of politicians I played host to at Ashaka, it is indeed very obvious that Ndokwa nation is set to liberate itself from neglect and gross marginalisation.   “It is my belief that the cream of political leaders now in APC Delta is those who can attract the best for Ndokwa nation,” he said.   He called on members of the party in the state to particularly support the efforts of the Deputy Senate President, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege, at bringing development to the state.   Omo-Agege, who was first elected in 2015 into the 8th Senate, represents the Delta State Central Senatorial District.   Speaking on the just concluded Ndokwa East Local Government Area Festival of Arts and Culture held in Ashaka, Ndanenu said there was need to improve on the event.   He, however commended the organisers of the event, saying there is room for improvement.(NAN)