By Victor Okoye Sani Toro, former Secretary General of the defunct Nigeria Football Association, has expressed confidence in the ability of the Super Eagles to defeat Egypt in the first group match of the 2021 AFCON in Cameroon. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nigeria and Egypt are set to clash in a massive Group D Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) 2021 opener on Tuesday. The game is potentially the pick of the group’s battles, at the Stade Roumdé Adjia as from 5 p.m. in Garoua. Toro, who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday ahead of the match, said he was confident that the Super Eagles would soar above the Pharaohs of Egypt. He said that even though the match wouldn’t be an easy one, the Super Eagles would still emerge victorious at the end. “It is going to be a difficult match and don’t be surprised that we are going to win that match. “I have that belief because it is only one player (Salah) that people keep talking about and once you cage him, forget it. “The Super Eagles, you know can spring alot surprises. So, don’t be surprised that Nigeria is going to beat Egypt and I have that confidence,” he said. Also, Samuel Ikpea, the National Chairman, Nigeria Football Supporters Club (NFSC), noted that even though the Egyptians are seven-time champions, it was possible to beat a champion. “Well, having done all that is necessary within our power and with the full preparation of our team, my expectation is that we are going to win that match. It’s going to be 2-3. “There’s nothing that says champions cannot be defeated. “We have also being champions on several occasions and I am very confident that even with the new coach Augustine Eguavoen, victory is sure. “We have been doing this for a very long time and I have said it times without number that right now in Cameroon we have all our various chapters. “We have new songs, especially songs that will motivate them and spur them do victory. “So, that is what gives us more confidence that we are going to win the match,” he said. Three-time champions Nigeria will take on seven-time champions Egypt, Sudan and debutants Guinea Bissau in the group phase of their 19th appearance in the AFCON, with the Stade Roumdé Adjia in Garoua the venue for all their matches. In 18 previous appearances at the AFCON, Nigeria has made 15 podium appearances. The 33rd edition of the AFCON which got underway with a colourful opening ceremony attended by FIFA President Gianni Infantino and Cameroon President Paul Biya at the Olembe stadium in Yaounde on Sunday is expected to end on Feb. 6. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)