By Lizzy Okoji Some Nigerians in Italy have commended the Federal Government for its prompt intervention in their passports availability request as the Nigerian Mission in Italy commences consular services across regions of the country. They expressed their joy and appreciation to the Federal government in a video message made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday, in Abuja. NAN reports that this is coming in the phase of the ongoing consular intervention visits by the Nigerian Mission to five Italian cities; Napoli, Ferrara, Padova, Udine and Como form Jan. 15 to Jan. 31. The intervention is coming following the appeal of the National Association of some Nigerian Unions in Italy (NUNAI) to the Federal Government in November 2021. Miss Faith John, a Nigerian living in Ferrara City appreciated the Nigerian government for listening to their appeal and their prompt response. John said she appreciated the exercise more as the Consular intervention went beyond the capital city of Rome to other cities, making the process a lot easier for applicants. “This exercise is really amazing, this is my first time having this experience, I have been in this city for a very long time. “This is the first time I am seeing the Nigerian Embassy in Ferrara, they are doing very well and I really appreciate this, for not only coming to Rome,” John said. Also, Mr Odiase Osaro, a Nigerian, who has lived in Italy for over four years said it was the first time he was experiencing such a prompt response from the government. Osaro said that Nigerians in Italy had been enjoying prompt responses to their plights and complaints since the tenure of current NUNAI excos and the new Ambassador, Omini Abam. “I am surprised, I was not expecting something like this and I really want to thank the Nigerian Association. “I will say the tenure is the most effective since I have been here, I have been here for just four years going to five years and I have never seen anything like this,” Osaro said. The President, Nigerian Association, Ferrara, Mrs Evelyn Aghom, appreciated the Comptroller General of the Nigerian Immigration Service, the Ministers of Interior and Foreign Affairs, and the Nigerian Ambassador in Italy for their intervention. Aghom said that the consular intervention exercise had been going very smoothly since its commencement and there had been massive turnouts with Nigerians expressing their joy and appreciation to their government. “We want to thank the NUNAI President and the Nigerian Embassy here in Italy, Rome. “When they asked for this service, the Comptroller General was very quick to respond and today we are benefitting from it,” Aghom said. In Padova, another city where the exercise is ongoing, Mr Mike Oputteh, NUNAI’s Welfare Officer, also appreciated Federal Government for being responsive to their challenges and for making the exercise a reality.(NAN) (www.nannews.ng)