By Lucy Ogalue The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) said one of its cardinal programmes for 2022 was to train its staff on customer relations. Mr Fidet Okhiria, NRC’s Managing Director, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) on Sunday in Abuja. Okhiria commended NRC staff for maintaining high discipline when carrying out their responsibilities. He however said more training especially in customer relations was necessary to help the staff relate more and better with customers/passengers. ”An average railway person compared to other areas are much disciplined and we try to maintain that. However we are still going for massive training on customer relations and that is one of our cardinal programmes for this year. ”So now that we are modernising, we have to train our people on how to relate with not just the average Nigerian but the masses. ”They need to know how to talk to people without offending them and not also bringing themself down in the process. ”So, it is one of the cardinal programmes we are doing this year to train our people on customer relations. ”So, as we meet a lot of people and people with different characters/ expectations, we will be equipped with the right approach on how to go about them and meet their expectations. On Daura Transport University, Okhiria explained that work was still in progress, adding that all things being equal, the project could be completed and admission would commence in 2022. ”It is going down well, the minister is going there again to see how far they have gone, I am hoping this year admission will also start. ”Don’t forget, 150 people have been sent abroad to be trained who will be the trainees trainer that will come in with the foreign partners to kick start the University. ”So, I think we are on the right path and hope to achieve this very soon. Hopefully this year, there will be admission in that university,” Okhiria said. The NRC boss, however, said the kickoff of the University also depended on collaboration of the ministry and that of the Ministry of Education, to ensure that appropriate standards were maintained. (NAN)