By Femi Ogunshola A Bill to establish Federal College of Nursing and Midwifery, Ayedun in Oke-Ero Local Government Area of Kwara has passed for public hearing in the House of Representatives. Rep. Tunji Olawuyi (APC-Kwara), the sponsor of the bill, while debating at the plenary on Wednesday in Abuja harped on the need to strengthen primary healthcare system in the country. Olawuyi said that the only solution to strengthening primary healthcare system was by reinforcing investment in the health sector. He said this required manpower,  especially nursing and midwifery professionals, adding ”there is need to ensure the passage of the bill to help the country’s health system.” Olawuyi said the bill was imperative as it would herald the first major federal presence in Ekiti/Irepodun/Isin/Oke-Ero Federal Constituency of Kwara and its educational development. He said that the traditional rulers and elders of the  constituency had unanimously resolved to donate at least 100 hectares of land for the establishment of the Institution. According to him, this will provide an enabling environment for the teeming youths across the country to be trained in nursing and midwifery. The lawmaker said that this had become necessary, especially at a time when the country was suffering from the dearth of health and medical manpower. “The passage of the bill will go a long way to stop the brain drain, exodus of medical and health personnel to foreign countries.” Olawuyi said that the bill would help to increase the country’s life expectancy rate. “It is also worthy to note that the proposed institution, when established will also pave way for several aspiring undergraduates to gain admission, since most of the existing tertiary institutions are saturated,” he added. He said that most Nigerian youths had been deprived from gaining admission into various institutions of their choice. especially in nursing and midwifery for lack of sufficient health institutions. It would be recalled that the bill first passed through the first reading on Oct. 7, 2021 in the House of Representatives.(NAN)