By Thompson Yamput Tima Foundation, an NGO, on Wednesday donated millions of Naira educational materials to primary and secondary schools in the eastern and western Senatorial districts of Kogi. Dr Fatima Alfa, the Founder of the foundation, made this known, while presenting hardcover notebooks to students in Yabma International Science Academy (YISA) in Lokoja. Alfa, a U.S.-based accountant, said besides supporting schools, the foundation was into empowering women towards supporting humanity in the pursuit and acquisition of skills and knowledge, especially at the foundation levels. She said the foundation had at different times donated set of computers, hardcover notebooks and other educational materials to various Institutions in Kogi and Lagos states. “Tima Foundation has, over the years, been giving grants, scholarships and tuition assistance to indigent students in Kogi as our way of giving back to the society. “Aside promoting education, our foundation has also empowered women through various skills acquisition and support to small scale businesses,’’ she explained. Responding, Mr Yakubu Yunusa, the Proprietor of YISA and former Majority Leader of Kogi State House of Assembly, commended the foundation for supporting the educational advancement of the state with quantum of qualitative educational materials. Yunusa, also former Majority Leader of Kogi State House of Assembly, represented by Mr Emmanuel Yusuf, Principal of YISA, applauded the foundation for the gesture and the show of love to Nigerian students. Also speaking, on behalf of YISA students, Miss Khadija Ahmed, an SSS-3 student, said the foundation had lifted their spirits and made them happy and proud to have such high quality materials. Also speaking, Alhaji Mohammed Adams, the Principal of Secondary Commercial College, Anyigba, one of the benefitting schools, commended the foundation for supporting the students. Adams prayed God for more grace to the foundation to continue with the good works and handsomely reward it by enlarging its coasts. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)