By Aderogba George The AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF), an NGO,  has urged leaders of the European Union and African Union to support the adoption of the new Global Public Health Convention/Treaty. The President of the foundation, Mr Michael Weinstein,  made the call in a statement signed by the Advocacy and Marketing Manager, AHF Nigeria, Mr Steve Aborisade, on Thursday in Abuja. He said the worlds’ inability to respond collectively to the COVID-19 pandemic was a stark indication that we needed to urgently reform the international framework of public health governance. Weinstein, maintained that until the principles of equity, cooperation, transparency and accountability were enshrined in an international accord, the risk of another pandemic loomed. He, therefore, called on the EU and AU leaders to act and rise to the support of the new public health convention, saying that the eyes of the world were upon them. He also advised that nations must commit to real action and genuine partnership on addressing COVID-19 vaccine inequalities, particularly at the EU-AU upcoming summit. Weinstein said the AIDS Healthcare Foundation was running a campaign,  calling attention to the urgent need to “Vaccinate Our World against COVID-19″. “Globally, AHF works in 45 countries and provides care and services to over 1.6 million patients around the world. “Ahead of the European Union-African Union summit, we urge you to prioritise actions aimed at righting the inequities that have plagued the COVID-19. “This will be in the area of response by rapidly increasing the sharing of COVID-19 vaccines, diagnostics, therapeutics, and related technologies. “The pandemic has made it abundantly clear – a global public health crisis cannot be solved piecemeal; it requires genuine partnership and cooperation. “To date,  the relationship between the EU and AU in responding to COVID-19 can only be described as perfunctory charity. This is not real cooperation.” According to the him, we will only find a way out of the pandemic if the two continents work together as equals, and we urge you to instill this principle as the motto of the upcoming summit. “There is no viable alternative to this approach if wealthy countries continue to hoard vaccines or send nearly expired doses to Africa, the waves of the virus will  continue to increase.’’ He urged the EU and AU leaders to specifically commit to the actions. AHF President, urged them to support the TRIPS waiver on vaccine patents and technologies at the World Trade Organisation and  make vaccines readily available to everyone who needed them. He also urged  the EU and AU leaders to ensure the vaccines have sufficiently long shelf life to avoid unnecessary wastage, as well as expand local generic vaccine manufacturing, technological capacity, and scientific know-how. He further urged  them to end the pandemic profiteering by pharma companies, fund the vaccine distribution infrastructure and human resources. He also urged the two continents’ leaders to maintain a transparent dialogue between EU and AU leaders, and engage civil society in the cooperation process. “The Vaccinate Our World campaign (VOW) was initiated to address the immoral disparity in COVID-19 vaccine access between wealthy nations and those of lower economic status. “As of today, 10 billion COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered globally, with 80 per cent of those going to people in high- and upper-middle-income countries. “Less than 16 per cent of the 1.3 billion people on the African continent have received at least one dose.’’ (NAN)