By Maureen Okon The Pakistani  government says the ongoing Engineering and Healthcare exhibition in  Punjab is a platform to create linkages for African markets and boost the economy. Governor of Punjab, Mr Mohammed Sarwar, said this on Friday, in Lahore at the inauguration of a three-day Engineering and Healthcare Exhibition 2022, holding from Feb. 25 to Feb. 27. The exhibition was organised by the Ministry of Commerce and Trade Development Authority of Pakistan in Lahore the state capital of Punjab, in Pakistan. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the show is a unique effort in lunching Pakistani engineering and healthcare sectors to the export stage which focuses on African markets. The exhibition brought to Pakistan business delegates from 46 countries in Africa in order to build corporate business linkages and to signal Pakistani readiness to do business internationally. Also, the programme has the best exporters from across 21 engineering sectors of Pakistan. Sarwar said that it was a great honour to welcome delegates from 46 countries in Africa to the event holding in Punjab, Pakistan. “It is a matter of great pleasure that the show is a unique effort in giving these sectors a much-needed international recognition, this indicates’ government readiness in striving towards trade diversification. “ Am sure that the ministry of commerce and trade development authority of Pakistan will make great stride towards enhancing Pakistani export potentials to the international market. “Our government is working proactively to improve the state of economy of Pakistan, and Pakistan needs to diversify both its products and market to become an export oriented power house. “ I am also confident that the exhibition will give these sectors the kind of exposure it needs to enhance Pakistani country business linkages and to demonstrates Pakistani readiness to business,’’ he said. He added that he was certain that given the right atmosphere and support by government of these regions that businesses can strive for all. Speaking earlier, the Secretary of Commerce for Pakistan, Muhammad Faruqi, said that more than 300 delegates from various countries of Africa were present at the inaugural event. “As you aware, the government of Pakistan since the beginning of COVID-19 has tried to combat the menace of the pandemic but at the same time to keep the ball rolling in terms of economic and social development. “This has brought to us fruits and fruits to the nation. ”This is a unique show and first of its kind and we are projecting pharmaceuticals and other healthcare related businesses and industries among others, and you will find companies from the nooks and crannies of Pakistan here to exhibits their products. “And, we hope both sides of our foreign and local business would be able to find their match and to get the whole exercise to fusion for their mutual benefits,’’ he said. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)