By Stephen Adeleye The Kogi Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mr Wemi Jones, has urged stakeholders in the sector to embrace the state government’s School Adoption and Mentorship programme. Jones made the call on Monday, at the opening of the ”General Book Review Activities” of the ministry in Lokoja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the ceremony is a quinquennial event to review textbooks to be recommended for schools in the state. The commissioner said that the programme was aimed at improving the standard of secondary school education and performance of the students. He further said that the book was last reviewed in March 2017, adding that another was due this year to help the ministry choose textbooks for schools in the state. According to him, this year’s review has been modified with more value addition, hence the need to formalise it. He said that Gov. Yahaya Bello had given priority to education, which was why 30 per cent of the state’s 2022 annual budget was allocated to the sector, higher than the UNESCO benchmark of 26 per cent. The commissioner, therefore, urged the stakeholders to reciprocate the governor’s magnanimity by taking education to the next level. He underscored the importance of book review, saying that it helps writers, authors and publishers’ views from the perspective of relevance and suitability to the learners’ curriculum. ”Textbooks and other instructional materials provide organised unit of work for teachers and learners and are excellent teaching and learning experiences,” he said. Jones urged the participants to contribute meaningfully to the success of the book review. ”We urge you to be fully part of the exercise in bringing back the glory of education in the state. ”We believe that with your partnership, the dream for the state to be among the leading states in education in the country will be achieved”, he said. Earlier, the Director, Quality Assurance of the ministry, Hajia Sherifat Yusuf, described the last review of textbooks five years ago as a remarkable progress in the state education sector. Yusuf commended the participants for being part of the event and urged them to participate actively toward making another history. Also, Mr Emmanuel Shaibu, the state Chairman, Association of Nigerian Authors, and representative of Emmog Universal Enterprise Ltd., Lokoja, expressed satisfaction with the review. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the book review will last between Feb. 8 and Feb. 28. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)