By Christian Njoku Aids Healthcare Foundation (AHF), a Los Angeles-based non-profit organisation is distributing more than 50,000 condoms in Cross River while warning youths to avoid risky behaviours. Speaking during a sensitisation walk on Monday in Calabar, its Country Director, Dr Echey Ijezie, said the initiative was in commemoration of the 2022 World Condoms Day (ICD). “ICD is a yearly observance on Feb. 13 in conjunction with Valentine’s Day to promote safer sex awareness. The theme for the 2022 commemoration is `condom always in fashion,’ he said. Ijezie said the reality of the society was that many youths were involved in risky sexual activities and AHF is trying to reduce this challenges involved by creating awareness on condom use. “Valentine is in the air and every year, we mark this day to create awareness among youths that risky sexual behaviours should be avoided as much as possible. “Condoms are in fashion, in vogue, safe, effective, free and users should not be stigmatised. “We have distributed more than 20 million condoms in Nigeria for free since 2011 till date and today, we are distributing 50,000 in the 18 Local Government Areas of Cross River,’’ he said. Ijezie added that apart from the walk and distribution of condoms on the streets of Calabar, AHF would also carry out free HIV testing and would give free anti-retroviral-drugs to those who test positive. In her remarks, Dr Betta Edu, Cross River’s Commissioner for Health, said government was advocating abstinence by singles and fidelity between partners. Edu said if sex must be had, it should be safe sex because five minutes of sexual pleasure could result in a lifetime of pain when parties contract HIV, hepatitis or other infections. She said Cross River was trying to achieve epidemic control for HIV and zero transmission from mother to child, adding that one of the best ways to achieve these was to use condom. Also speaking at the occasion, Dr Janet Ekpenyong, Director-General, Cross River Primary Healthcare Development Agency, thanked AHF for being a worthy partner in the fight against HIV and AIDS. “To everyone here, I advise you to continue to use condoms because it helps to prevent pregnancies and Sexually Transmitted Infections. “We understand that some religious organisations are against the use of condoms, but we had to let them know that condoms also prevent pregnancies in family planning,’’ she noted. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that AHF, the largest global AIDS organisation, currently provides medical care and/or services to more than 1.7 million clients in 45 countries, including Nigeria. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)