By Bolaji Buhari The Speaker of the House of Representatives , Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila, says the ninth National Assembly is irrevocably committed to uplifting young people and will do everything possible to support them. Gbajabiamila made the statement on Saturday in Lagos,  while speaking at the empowerment programme he organised for the people of his Surulere 1 Federal Constituency No fewer than 5000 constituents benefited from the empowerment programme with 351 tertiary institutions getting education grants of between N20,000 to N80,000. The speaker also distributed laptops to 1020 teachers in the constituency while 1596 small business owners were given cash grants of between N50,000 and N150,000. No fewer than 120 automobiles were presented to people of the area,  while police stations ,the Lagos University Teaching Hospital and community hospitals in Surulere got patrol vehicles and ambulances. The speaker said the country is blessed with young people with great potential , promising that the ninth national assembly would do all it could to  create the right environment for them to thrive. “Nigeria is blessed with a lot of young potential, young men and women who have the capacity, knowledge, know-how, drive, sincerity of purpose but unfortunately yet to have the endowment to thrive. ” I promise you today and I give you my solemn word that those of us in the ninth assembly will continue to do what we can, whenever, wherever, however we can to make sure that these young boys and girls, who we call the greater tomorrow, are indeed given a seat at the table and perhaps someday, sit at the head of the table.”he said . The speaker also said the ninth assembly was passionate about the development of the country and would continue to  work assiduously for the progress of the nation. Gbajabiamila said the empowerment programme was in appreciation of the consistent support given him by his constituents and in redemption of his electoral promise to impact on the people of the area. He promised to always work for the good of the people of the constituency and to bring more dividends of democracy to the people. The speaker said his interventions in education in the area was owing to his passion about education and the future of the country. He thanked Gov. Babajide Sanwoolu for offering purposeful leadership in the state and impacting positively on the people of the state. The speaker also thanked the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in the state ,Mr Cornelius Ojelabi for his consistent support and giving direction to the party in the state. Speaking ,a former Nigerian ambassador to Ghana, Sen.Musiliu Obanikoro described Gbajabiamila as a rare politician and a worthy representative of the people. Obanikoro said Gbajabiamila had acquitted himself remarkably well as speaker of the House of Representatives. “He has done well and I commend him. This is a speaker that is not only doing well at the national assembly but also doing extremely well for the people. “I am proud of him and ready to support him anywhere he is going”, he said. In a speech, Ojelabi described Gbajabiamila as a great ambassador of the party who had done the party proud in the state. He said the speaker had redefined representation and leadership with his sterling performance at the house of representatives and the support for his constituents. “You have done well for the people of Surulere and Lagos in general,  and for this I am saying thank you and that the party is proud of you,” he said(NAN)