By Emmanuella Anokam Partners for Petroleum and Energy Sector Prosperity Initiative (P-PESPI) an energy group, has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint a substantive Managing Director (MD) for Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). P-PESPI said this in a statement by its Chairman, Mr Charles Ibiang in Abuja on Thursday. Ibiang also urged the president to consider Mr Sule Abdulaziz, the Acting MD of TCN as the substantive head of the organisation. “Confirming the appointment of Sule AbdulAziz as the substantive MD of TCN, a vital agency in the Nigeria electricity supply industry, is important at this critical time of nation’s development,” he said. Ibiang lauded Buhari for inaugurating the TCN board, in line with the extant laws as well as diligent implementation of the Presidential Power Initiative; a well thought out policy plan to ensure adequate power supply to Nigerians. He however, pleaded with the president to complete the circle of progressive power sector reforms by appointing a substantive MD for TCN. “P-PESPI as a critical industry focused observer, has witnessed a matured coordination of critical stakeholders, remarkable milestones, continuation and completion of abandoned projects under the leadership of the current the acting MD. “He is ably qualified for the position, and his confirmation will put an end to the instability of the past associated with the high leadership turnover at TCN to ensure successful implementation of ongoing projects and programmes. “Some of Abdulaziz’s achievements based on our field monitors include the creation of Kano Region, bringing to ten TCN’s regional operations centres in the country. “TCN under his stewardship is building over thirty-two office complexes nationwide, including regional, sub regional offices and work centers to further enhance operational efficiency. “The new Port Harcourt Regional Office in Rivers has been completed and commissioned. “P-PESPI wishes to point out all important milestones in March, 2021, when the industry recorded all-time peak generation of 5,801 megawatts which the TCN was able to successfully transmit,” he said. This, he added was as a result of strategic management decisions under the leadership of Abdulaziz, with the guidance of the President, who ensured the completion of several abandoned projects, prompt maintenance, upgrade and repair of vandalised transmission lines and facilities. He expressed confidence that the president’s Presidential Power Initiative in the transmission value chain would receive a new impetus in terms of investments with the confirmation of Abdulaziz as substantive TCN boss. Ibiang stated that the electricity sector was on the right track with the inauguration of its board and appointment of a competent Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu by Buhari. Abdulaziz has been piloting the affairs of TCN in acting capacity; a position he has held for nearly two years. He was the Regional Transmission Manager for the Abuja Region of TCN before his appointment as the Acting MD on May 19, 2020, following the sack of the former MD, Mr Mohammed Gur. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)