By Okon Okon The Federal Character Commission (FCC), has debunked report on the alleged certificate forgery against its Chairman, Dr Muheeba Dankaka. This is contained in a statement issued by Dr Chuks Okoli, Director of Public Affairs and  Communication of the commission, on Wednesday, in Abuja. Okoli recalled that on July 8 and 15, 2021, the Youths and Leadership Initiatives (LYGEL), through a press statement made allegation of certificate forgery against the FCC’s chairman. According to him, the allegation was published in several national dailies, aired on media houses and circulated across various social media platforms. “The commission debunked this story and also had the chairman’s personal Lawyer to respond to the allegations and demanded the immediate retraction of all the allegations contained in the statement. “It was clear to all discerning minds that they showed desperation to act a script to damage the chairman’s reputation. “The chairman did not school abroad but in Nigeria, Ahmadu Bello University Zaria and Bayero University Kano respectively,” Okoli said. He said that like any other person appointed to a position of responsibility in the country, Dankaka was also appointed to steer the affairs of the commission. Okoli said that Dankaka’s credentials were screened by various organs of government, including the security agencies before her confirmation by the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “In like manner, Dankaka attended public Schools in Nigeria and the institutions still exist where aggrieved individuals can visit to verify the authenticity of the credentials from the above named institutions. “However, if you are a married woman, are you not supposed to change your name to your husband’s name? We have affidavit and Newspaper publications to that effect, and then what is their problem? Okoli asked. He said it was laughable and disrespectful for LYGEL to insinuate that the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, other security agencies that carried out the screening of Dankaka’s credentials, either made a mistake or did not know what they were doing. “It is albeit important to say that the chairman has, from the inception viewed this smear campaign as libelous and defamatory, targeted at her person as a distinguished personality in this country, to bring her reputation to disrepute by all means. “The question to ask, therefore, at this stage is, what is the motive behind this new unabated smear campaign against Dankaka to tannish her reputation at all cost?, Okoli asked. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)