By Sumaila Ogbaje The National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), is seeking to strengthen collaboration with the Nigerian Army to curb the scourge of trafficking in persons in Nigeria. Dr Fatima Waziri, the Director-General of NAPTIP made the call when she led the management team of the agency on a courtesy visit to the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya on Friday in Abuja. She said that NAPTIP had been able to carry out its responsibilities through collaboration with security agencies. According to her, the agency has been able to secure 500 convictions since inception. Waziri said that trafficking in persons for human organs had become the most trending aspect of human trafficking, adding that human organs had flourishing markets across the globe. She said the agency was committed to strengthening partnerships and forging new alliances with various security agencies and the military due to the enormity of the different trends of trafficking in persons. According to her, it is on record that over the years, NAPTIP has had a fantastic relationship with the military in terms of joint intelligence and operations to rescue victims and survivors. She, therefore, requested the support of the army in the area of training in combat, intelligence gathering and sharing, as well as logistics support like operational vehicles. “In fact, in 2021, with the assistance of the military, we were able to arrest a wife of a soldier in Mambila Barracks, who was implicated in a case of trafficking in persons. “Apparently, she is part of trafficking in persons who recruit young Nigerian girls, harbours them and transports them to Libya, and the case is currently in court. “And also in 2020, we had a case that was referred to us by the military, a three- year-old boy that was on the verge of being kidnapped,” she said. The NAPTIP boss lamented the alarming number of young Nigerians currently stranded in different countries. According to her, more than 20,000 Nigerian women and girls are being used for prostitution and living under absolutely worse conditions. Waziri said that NAPTIP was working with embassies, high commissions and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to see how they could be repatriated. Responding, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, said the rate of trafficking in persons from Nigeria to other countries was quite alarming. Yahaya said that the Nigerian army would continue to support NAPTIP in its bid to curb the menace of human trafficking. He said that sensitisation was necessary to educate people on the danger of trafficking in persons through traditional and religious leaders, especially in mosques and churches. Read also: NAPTIP, NGO partner on rehabilitation, reintegration of victims He commended NAPTIP for a job well done and encouraged the agency to continue to approach the relevant stakeholders that support the agency to carry out its tasks. “We are always available and willing to support all government agencies. We can facilitate training and intelligence hearing and gathering. “Army, in all its units is willing to support in the area of provision of security for your activities even though we know that the police is there to do that,” he said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)