By Lizzy Okoji The ECOWAS Community Court of Justice has organised its maiden state sensitisation programme in Ilorin, Kwara, to enlighten the public on its activities and programmes. The Communications Department of the ECOWAS Court, in a statement made available to journalists on Tuesday, in Abuja, stated that the one-week event aimed to bring the Court closer to the people. According to the statement, the delegation of the ECOWAS Court led by its Vice President, Justice Gberi be Ouattara, three other judges and staff, arrived in Ilorin, on Feb. 20. Ouattarra stated that the campaign, the first by the Court since its establishment 20 years ago, would be an important annual activity of the Court in Member States. He stated that the activity was intended to engage with the various stakeholders on the Court’s mandate, jurisdiction and access. “The campaign has been structured in such a way that the presentations respond to the specific needs of the target groups. “Mainly judges and judicial staff of the state, women groups, lawyers, students, the media, law lecturers, as well as the police, immigration and customs. “Hopefully, the campaign will not only improve awareness of the Court among ECOWAS citizens in the State. “But enable them to appreciate the option the Court offers for the protection of their human rights, in line with its mandate,” Ouattara stated. The Court said the week-long programme, would be preceded by courtesy visits to the State Governor, the Chief Judge of the State, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice. The ECOWAS delegation would also pay similar visits to the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, the Emir of Ilorin, and the Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association, Ilorin branch. The outreach would equally extend to civil society groups, women groups, workers, various associations, members of the academia and journalists. The State governor would be expected to declare open the campaign on Tuesday, at a ceremony billed to attract senior government officials, judges, lawyers, students, law lecturers, representatives of women groups and journalists. Also, as part of the event would be a forum for judges and judicial officers of the state, where the Court would make presentations on its relationship with national courts on Feb. 23. Lawyers in the State would also participate in a dedicated forum where they would benefit from presentations by officials of the Court on its mandate and jurisdiction, practice and procedures, as well as how cases were filed before it. The women’s forum would enable the Court to engage with women stakeholders, during which there would be a presentation on women’s rights. The event would be wrapped up with a press conference on Feb. 25. On the Court’s delegation were three other judges; Justices Dupe Atoki, Keikura Bangura and Januaria Monterio Costa, as well as staff of the Court, the statement said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)