By Ruth Oketunde The Minister of State for Health, Dr Olorunnimbe Mamora, has commended the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Jabi, for successfully performing open heart surgeries on four patients for the first time. He gave the commendation on Monday in Abuja, when he visited the facility for an on-the-spot assessment of the patients and some equipment in the hospital. Mamora who commended the team which carried out the surgery said the procedures were done seamlessly as the patients were already getting better. He added that it was important for Nigerians to encourage and promote the success stories of Nigerian professionals, as such would discourage medical tourism outside the country. “If we do something on a positive side and it is not reported, then it would be like lighting a candle and putting it under the table. “This is one feat that must be commended by all and even as we give glory to God, let the accolades be given to President Muhammadu Buhari. “This is because his administration has upgraded our facilities, health and medical facilities in general. “And it is a gradual process of improving our capacity to handle cases that are considered impossible, because all along we have the capacity in terms of personnel. “What is needed is the conducive environment, in terms of facilities and with that we will be able to fly out trades as health sector practitioners,” he said. Prof. Saad Ahmed, Medical Director, FMC Jabi, added that the surgeries were conducted with the support of Save the Heart Foundation. The medical director called on philanthropists, corporate bodies and well-meaning Nigerians to donate to the facility’s medical indigent fund, so as to generate funds for treatment of patients. “The essence is to domesticate it and make it a routine procedure for the Federal Medical Centre in Abuja. “This is going to be for the benefit of all Nigerians as well as our neighbouring countries and some other parts of the world. “Though we started small, but we look at making it bigger in the nearest future,” he added. On his part, Dr Alex Tosan, Chairman, Board Members, FMC Jabi, commended the medical director, top management and the team that carried out the surgeries. He added that the surgeries which were done at subsidised costs were carried out only by Nigerian experts. “The patients are doing very fine as most of them are even surprised to find out that the surgery had been conducted. “Within 48 hours, all of them were up and about, none of them suffered from any pain, they are not suffering from any post-traumatic stress that accompanies major surgeries,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the minister who had an interactive session with the four patients at their wards, also inspected some equipment at the hospital.(NAN)