By Georgina Adegbie Igoche Mark, the president of Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF), has assured that the Federation would organise more competitions at the local level to enhance the sport’s development from the grassroots. Mark gave the assurance during the closing ceremony of the first phase of the Mark D’Ball Male Basketball Championship on Saturday at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja. He said the basketball federation was set to improve and make the game as popular as football in the country. “First of all, we give thanks to all the eight teams which participated, for their cooperation and high level of discipline, in this first phase of the championship. They (teams) did well in all their games. “Our mission is to revive our domestic competition, and this is why the second phase of the championship will kick off next week Sunday,” Mark said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the final day matches at the competition saw Police Baton beating Road Safety Knights 57-55 in the first match. Hot Coal Ballers later beat AHIP Giants 68-55, while Mo Heat thrashed APA Flames 126-76 in the third game and Gombe Bulls beat Nile University Spartans 74-69 in the last match. NAN reports that Mo Heat from Nasarawa state finished first on the championship’s final table with 14 points. Gombe Bulls finished second with 12 points with a goals difference of +66 while Hot Coal Ballers finished in third place with 12 points and a goals difference of +61. Nile University Spartans finished fourth with 10 points, while APA Flames also finished with 10 points but had to take the fifth place because of goals difference. Police Baton also finished with 10 points but are occupying the sixth position. Road Safety Knights finished in seventh place with nine points, while AHIP Giants finished in eighth place with seven points. NAN reports that eight teams participated in the first phase of the competition which started on Sunday and ended on Saturday.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng)