By Emmanuel Afonne The All Progressives Congress (APC), United Kingdom (UK) chapter, has advised the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party to postpone the party’s national convention, scheduled for Feb. 26. The chapter gave the advice in a statement issued on Wednesday by Dr Philip Idaewor, Chairman, APC in UK. Idaewor stated that the postponement became necessary to enable the Gov. Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) win more grounds in reconciling aggrieved members. The APC UK chairman also stated that postponement of the convention, while focusing on the much-needed fence mending, would ensure the party retains power in 2023. “It is better to shift the national convention to a later date and consolidate on the successes achieved by the convention planning committee in uniting various factions, than to lose all it has achieved. “The Chapter urged APC’s National Executive Committee (NEC) to immediately postpone the National Convention from Saturday Feb. 26 to enable pending critical issues to be addressed. “The postponement is important, especially now that the reconciliation committee, led by Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, has requested for a one-week extension to complete its work. “APC in UK earlier weighed in on the matter some months ago, where it urged the party to align with best practices in deciding the convention date which should go with election of the party’s presidential flag bearer,” Idaewor said. The statement also quoted Idaewor as saying that the proposition would ensure the highest participation of members in the diaspora as they would not dissipate logistics in travelling to Nigeria twice for the same event. He therefore urged the party’s NEC to summon courage and postpone the convention in the overall interest of all stakeholders to promote unity, harmony and cohesion within the party. According to the diaspora APC group, rushing into a convention within the space of the next three weeks will further fracture the party. Read also: APC focused on common man’s welfare – Osinbajo The APC UK chapter regretted that the emergence of multiple factions in many of its state chapters does not project confidence that the party would have a smooth sail in the next year general elections. “The logical thing is to allow the reconciliation committee to finish its assignment as there is no gain in progressing in error. “APC stakeholders will simply slave for others to enjoy, if the party holds the convention in February, as it will merely be solidifying the rancorous situation that is present at state levels. “The Gov. Buni-led committee has performed creditably which has left the APC UK wondering why the committee cannot be allowed more time to complete the good work it is doing. “The committee has singularly brought reconciliation to several state chapters, and we are confident that it will make factional politics a thing of the past when it is given more time to restore sanity to the party,” the statement quoted Idaewor as saying. He further stated that the APC government, led by President Muhammadu Buhari, had attracted a lot of good things to the country that require continuity. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)