By Ibironke Ariyo The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) and the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) are in partnership to tackle the menace of road traffic crashes caused by articulated vehicles. Speaking during the one-day joint stakeholders’ forum, the Chief Executive Officer, FCCPC, Babatunde Irukera, on Thursday in Abuja, expressed concern over the high rate of accidents in the country. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme of the forum is “Safe haulage operations for sustainable road use in Nigeria’’. Irukera said that there is the need for collaboration to campaign in order to help in the reduction of road accidents and protect consumers as well to ensure safer roads. He said that emergency response must be given a priority to protect victims of road accidents and consumers in the country. He also said that non-compliance to traffic rules and regulations are major problems affecting articulated vehicles. Irukera said that the abuse in the use of articulated vehicles contributes to the destruction of roads across the country. According to him, “if citizens self-regulate and comply with the law, road accidents will reduce drastically. “I don’t think we need parliament to agree as a matter of consensus that we lose people needlessly through road accidents. “Sixty per cent of vehicles are in Africa and other developing countries. and 93 per cent of deaths attributed to road accidents occur in the same region,” he said. Irukera said that accidents in Ogun State alone within the first nine months of 2021 involved 441 articulated vehicles, making it 60 per cent of accidents in that same region in 2021. “This was one of those things that fundamentally affects the society,” he said. He stressed the need for collective efforts against the menace of road carnage, stating that dealing with the menace of tanker and trailer crashes require commitment of all relevant stakeholders. “To have a nation that we deserve, there must be collective responsibility to address this menace. The truth is that FRSC cannot be everywhere. Everyone must be involved,’’ he said. Also speaking, the Corps Marshal, FRSC, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, said that the partnership with the FCCPC would contribute towards addressing the challenges against road safety. Oyeyemi, represented by Mrs Ojeme Ewhrudjakpor, the Deputy Corps Marshal, FRSC, said that the collaboration would also help in the actualisation of the Nigeria Road Safety Strategy II (2021-2030). He said that roads were an integral part of any transport network and a country’s road network efficiency is the pivot of its economic and social development. He added that road traffic injuries are one of the high cases of deaths globally, saying that FRSC recorded more than 10,000 crashes annually with an average of over 5,000 deaths. According to him, this figure is unacceptable and therefore, there must be deliberate efforts by all stakeholders in road safety sector to take action that will promote sanity on the Nigeria roads. “I have no doubt that this partnership will go a long way in promoting effective road safety that will bring about social and economic development in our nation. “Road Safety is a shared responsibility. I therefore solicit for the continual cooperation of all transport operators in achieving a sustainable safer road. “And also its attendant effect in reducing the rate of fatality and actualisation of sustainable development goals by the year 2030,’’ he said. Mr Yusuf Othman, the President, Nigerian Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO), noted that drivers are now properly trained and briefed before they embark on any journey. Othman added that most of the articulated vehicles now have speed limit devices which have reduced the rate of accidents compared to previous years. “Most of the vehicles now have speed limiters to control speed and they do not drive in the night, consequently reducing accidents by tanker drivers. “When you compare with previous years, you will notice some reduction in road accidents. We will keep ensuring that all the vehicles have speed limiters,’’ he said. (NAN)