By Sumaila Ogbaje The Commandant General, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Dr Ahmed Audi, has solicited training and weapons support from Nigerian army to enhance operational capabilities of NSCDC personnel. Audi made the request when he visited the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, on Tuesday, in Abuja. He said that NSCDC operatives required adequate training to be able to support the military in tackling the current asymmetric security challenges bedeviling the country. He said that the Nigerian Army and Civil Defence had been working together for over 50 years when it provided support to the injured during the civil war, adding that it had continued to leverage on the relationship. According to him, the level of professionalism and training the military administers is unique as many NSCDC officers had opportunity to be trained by the army. “That training actually prepared some of us for this task and so I am here with my people to tap anointing. “I am also here for familiarisation and collaboration because we have realised that no service can do it alone, more especially that we are now being confronted with a very dangerous conflict called asymmetric conflict,” he said. According to him, this same conflict dealt with some countries like Sri Lanka for some two to three decades and these guys, unfortunately, they have also reared their ugly face in our country and they are trying to hold the country to ransom. “They operate like guerrillas, they will come out attack and then go back to base and usually the attack is debilitating and devastating and we have seen that in the case of some other countries. “What they did to nip this in the bud was to synergise, come together and work with intelligence and then adopt the offensive strategy and I think we are getting to that stage in Nigeria,” he said. Audi said that NSCDC and the army only needed to strengthen the synergy that had existed between them over a period of time. He pledged that the corps would continue to learn from the military and urged the army chief to continue to mentor NSCDC to be able to achieve its mandate. Responding, the Chief of Army Staff, assured the commandant general of the continued support of Nigerian army to NSCDC in the areas of training and other supports within its power. Read also: Nigerian Army attributes recent successes to new war strategy Yahaya said that Nigerian army and NSCDC had maintained strong synergy in several operations and exercises in different part of the country. He said the army would leverage on the wider reach and coverage of NSCDC to strengthen the synergy, adding that his vision was to ensure that army worked jointly with others security agencies among other stakeholders. He commended the high level of discipline and dedication of NSCDC personnel during operations, urging them not to relent, but to continue in the drive. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)