By Rukayat Moisemhe The Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) and Vitapur Nigeria Limited have joined hands to promote local content for sustainable development of manufacturing industries in Nigeria. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Vitapur Nigeria Limited is a Vitafoam Nigeria PLC subsidiary. Chairman, Innovation Committee, NSE, Ikeja Branch, Mr Nimot Muili, during a Vitapur facility tour on Thursday commended the company for its giant stride in the production of modern building materials. He expressed his association’s willingness to collaborate with the company to educate Nigerians on the relevance of patronising local content. Muili noted that the collaboration would enrich its members in terms of professional knowledge of the trends in the industry. “We have noticed that Vitapur focuses on sustainable development through its local content policy which increases output and creates job opportunities. “There is a need for collaboration in this regard since Vitapur is well known for supporting the global initiative of green environment through insulation products which conserve energy and also protect humans from direct heat radiation from the sun. “We should collaborate for exchange of technical know-how, awareness for engineers on technology transfer and also improve local content development in production and operation of value chain. “We should also create awareness on internship and employment opportunities in the society,” he said. Mr Yemi Mofikoya, General Manager, Vitapur Nigeria Limited, noted that collaboration would be mutually beneficial in this period when government was emphasizing local content for sustainable growth and development of the economy. Mofikoya stated that Vitapur had capability to manufacture rigid polyurethane foam and coldchains solutions. He added that the collaboration was part of the company’s drive to enable professionals have first-hand knowledge of its products and services. “The coldchains solution such as the insulated boxes, insulated tricycles, coldrooms/blast freezer, insulated trucks are manufactured in Vitapur,” he said. Vitapur’s Technical and Strategy Manager, Mr Kehinde Akintayo, explained that the company had been able to implement the use of environmental friendly blowing agent which the Federal Ministry of Environment was really driving. He noted that their partnership with the United Nation Development Project (UNDP) had also aligned their businesses with raw materials that were environmentally friendly. “We have been able to develop an in-house capacity and we keep empowering our team members and investing in latest technology to satisfy customers’ needs with environmentally friendly products,” he said.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng)