By Jacinta Nwachukwu The National Mathematical Centre (NMC) has honoured some students with award of excellent and cash prizes for their credible performances in its 2021 National Mathematical Sciences Olympiad Competition. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the centre also honoured  the best school in mathematics. The Director/Chief Executive of the centre, Prof. Promise Mebine, at the award ceremony on Thursday in Abuja, said the aim was to encourage young Nigerian scientists, who have distinguished themselves in the competition. Mebine further said that through the Olympiad competition, the centre was able to identify, nurture and mentor the next generation of mathematical scientists that could use their knowledge and talent to contribute to nation’s building. He also said that the awardees represented Nigeria in the International Olympiad and won some awards for outstanding performance. “Nigeria began to participate in the International Mathematical Sciences Olympiad competition in 2005. “After Nigeria had served as an observer nation in 2005 as the rule of the competition stipulates, she then participated and presented students for the competition from 2006. “Since then, the country has presented candidates for the five International Mathematical Sciences Olympiad, till date. “Toward Nigeria’s participation in the International Mathematical Olympiad, National Mathematical Sciences Olympiad competitions are being organised annually in eight subjects to select Nigerian students to represent the country at the world stage of the competition.” He noted that Nigeria, for instance; through the Centre hosted the 17 edition of the Pan African Mathematics Olympiad in April 2007 and a Nigerian student won Gold for achieving the highest score in the contest. Mebine added that many Nigerian students had been winning medals and securing scholarships since Nigeria began to take part in the competition. He listed the mathematical sciences subjects competed for nationally to include Senior Mathematics, Junior Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Senior Informatics, Junior Informatics and Junior science. The Prof. explained that the objectives of the Olympiad among other things were to identify youthful talents in mathematics, encourage, develop and reward youths in mathematics and mathematical sciences. He said that the objectives also included establishing friendly relations among young African MathematicalScientists and exchanging information on curricula and teaching methods in the mathematical sciences across the continents. “Other objectives, he said, were to serve as intellectual peer review among participating countries and improve the quality of academic content in mathematics and science education and, also to improve relations and interaction among the comity of nations. “It is for this reason to honour students who have performed well in last year’s Olympiad competition, that we are gathered here today,” he said. Mebine, however, solicited the assistance of all stakeholders, especially the organised private sector and governments at all levels to fund its activities. “So as to encourage these young Nigerian scientists to annually compete with the rest of the world, this invariably would have a tangential effect on our educational, scientific and technological advancement”. Mebine, therefore, congratulated all the award recipients, their teachers, parents, guardians and principals of schools for the giant stride they have made in reaching this stage of the 2021 Olympiad competition. “The success you have recorded would not have been possible without the determination and resilience to succeed,” Mebine added. In his remarks, Malam Adamu Adamu, Minister of Education while commending NMC for the initiative, said that the principal aim of the Olympiads was to cultivate scientific reasoning and attitude through innovative activities for students across the federation. Adamu was represented by the Director, University Education, Mrs Rakiya Gambo. According to him, the competition is also geared toward promoting, encouraging and celebrating ingenuity, creativity, and indigenous solutions to problems plaguing Nigeria using Science and Technology. “As a matter of fact, the importance of Science and Technology in every sphere of our life cannot be over-emphasized. “As the 21st Century marches on scientific advances have changed and are changing our offices, our factories, our homes, schools and streets. “Our economy is being transformed while new cutting edge sectors like bio-informatics and digital economies are springing up every day. “For us to survive as a nation in the face of developing technologies, there is the need for the grooming of our young talents to be future great scientists, engineers, inventors and entrepreneurs.” He also noted that Nigeria’s greatest asset was its human capital which was richly embodied in the youths, who make up to tens of millions of incredibly talented persons, constantly pushing and striving toward greatness. He also assured that this administration would continue to create the enabling environment for Nigerian youths to develop their potentials to the fullest in Mathematics, Technology and Science to make Nigeria achieve true greatness. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the National Science Olymplads competition is organised annually for students all over Nigeria in order to assess their academic progress in Mathematical sciences. NAN also reports that Nigerian Tulip International College (NTIC) Abuja won the best school in mathematics with its students – Okezie Chidozie and Otutochi Nwadinkpa taken first and second positions respectively in mathematics. Miss Abiodun Didunoluwa of the Ambassadors College, Ota in Ogun became the “Mathematics Queen”. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)