President Arif Alvi By Maureen Okon The President of Pakistan,  Dr Arif Alvi, says he is committed to ensuring that his country and African states  do business with ease. The president gave the commitment at a dinner hosted in honour of delegates attending an engineering and healthcare show in Lahore, on Saturday A Correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) covering the event reports the 330 delegates from Africa are participating in the three-day show which kicked off on Feb. 25. Arif said that his government would offer friendly policies and commitment that would maximise and enhance investors` comfort and confidence. According to the president, almost all sectors of the Pakistani economy are open to investment with attractive incentives and liberal policies. “We will bend backwards to achieve this. A number of reforms have been initiated to modernise the business regulatory framework. “Also, we take pride in the quality of our products as they are among the best in the world, ranging from bikes, tyres, kitchen utensils, textiles, surgical equipment, tractors, among others,’’ he said. Speaking earlier, the Governor of state of Punjab, Mr Mohammed Sarwar, thanked the guests who graced the occasion. He said Africa and Central Asian countries were regarded across the world as the next business destinations. He urged participants to use the opportunity of being in Lahore, the capital of Punhab, to explore the city tourist centres and to enjoy its hospitality. Mr Muhmmad Dawood, the Advisor on Commerce and Trade to the Prime Minister, said that he was excited with the news that some Pakistani businesses have established contacts in Nigeria. He pointed out that after the Pakistan-Africa Trade Development Conference, a single country exhibition which held in Lagos in November 2021, many business contacts were established. Dawood noted that Africa’s trade profile was rising and expressed optimism that with time the continent and Asia would have a stronger trade bond. (NAN)  (www.nannews.ng)