By Ikenna Osuoha Save Our Heritage Initiative (SOHI) on Friday in Abuja urged women and girls to participate more actively in science in order to contribute more to national development. The Chief Executive Officer, SOHI, Ms May Ikokwu, said this during an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in commemoration of World’s Women and Girls’ in Science Day. She said that science and gender equality were vital for the achievement of the internationally agreed development goals, including the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. “Parents and guardians should try to encourage their girl children to participate in science not just for their empowerment but for the society at large. “Women and girls as mothers and future mothers are essential in using science to advance the world for the better,” she said. Ikokwu, who described science as a comprehension of natural laws, said it was a product of culture. According to her, cultural values provide the platform upon which people not only pursue their goals and aspirations but also live in harmony. She said that active engagement of women and girls in science was a roadmap to preserving the country’s heritage. “Women and girls are golden heritages themselves that need to be preserved for prosperous future. “So training them as scientists is indeed the best investment any evolving society can do to guarantee and save the future,” she said. Ikokwu said that over the past decades the global community had made a lot of efforts in inspiring and engaging women and girls in science. She increased women and girls’ participation in science would help to eliminate gender stereotypes and prejudices. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that in 2015 the United Nations General Assembly declared Feb. 11 every year as the International Day of Women and Girls in Science. The declaration is to achieve full and equal access and participation in science for women and girls and further achieve gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls. (NAN)