By Okon Okon The Global Disability Inclusion (CBM), a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), has sought partnership with the Federal Government on safeguarding Persons with Disability at the grassroots. Ms Ekaete Umoh, CBM`s Country Director, made this known while briefing newsmen on Tuesday in Abuja, following the outcome of the second Global Disability Summit (GDS). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that GDS`s Summit was recently co-hosted by the International Disability Alliance and governments of Ghana and Norway from Feb. 16 to 17. She said: “in line with these, CBM Global is willing and able to collaborate with the government of Nigeria towards achieving the 2022 GDS` commitments align with our strategic objectives as an organisation. “CBM shall work with government to advocate disability responsive laws and ending practices that prevent persons with disabilities from being considered citizens with equal rights and ensuring that their organisations are fully involved in legal issues. “CBM Global commits to working with government of Nigeria and the press to develop inclusive education sector plans, covering from early childhood education through to higher education, including vocational education, among other commitments, “ she said. According to Umoh, CBM Global will make itself available to work with the Federal Government, to ensure monitoring of government`s intervention programmes for the physically-challenged are executed. The CBM boss pledged to build working relationships with the key sector of government, including tracking progress of implementation of collective GDS`s commitments, for better accountability to CBM`s partners and the disability community. According to her, CBM Global`s distinctive includes: Authentic partnerships with the disability movements, inclusion expertise as a dual mandate organisation, field programmes, advocacy and advisory work. Umoh listed other key priority areas of CBM to include: Community-based development, humanitarian action, inclusive eye, health and neglected topical diseases, including community mental health challenges among the persons with disability. NAN reports that CBM is an International Christian Development Organisation and a world leader in global disability inclusion. It works alongside people with disabilities in the world`s poorest places to fight poverty, exclusion and transform lives. NAN also reports that Nigeria signed and domesticates some set of goals to push for the promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities. The overarching commitments for the GDS summit include: Capacity-strengthening of organisations of persons with disabilities in the global south. They also include: Inclusive education, health, employment/livelihoods, and inclusion in situation of crisis, including focus on climate change. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)