By Sumaila Ogbaje The Minister of Defence, retired Maj.-Gen. Bashir Magashi, says the  Federal Government is committed to providing more platforms for the military. This, he said, was to sustain the tempo of operations against insurgency, banditry and other security challenges across the country. Magashi gave the assurance at the end of the 2021 West African Social Activities (WASA) of the Army Headquarters Garrison, on Saturday in Abuja. He said that President Muhammadu Buhari’s continuous support for the armed forces had added tremendous impetus to the ongoing efforts by the Nigerian armed forces in the fight against insurgency. According to him, it is based on the support of the Federal Government that the ministry has continued to strive relentlessly to keep the services, by providing various grades of equipment and ammunition. “We shall continue to make efforts to ensure that more platforms are prescribed to sustain the tempo of operations. “I wish to state that you must imbibe good maintenance culture so as to make this equipment readily available when needed for operations. “It is worthy to mention that training is the best welfare that can be given to officers and soldiers and I am very appreciative of the efforts of the Chief of Army Staff, for ensuring that all the training exercises for the year 2021 are successfully conducted.” The minister said the conduct of the trainings had proven to be result oriented, adding that several personnel who were trained and deployed for operations had performed creditably well. He reassure the Nigerian army that the ministry would continue to make the welfare of officers and soldiers and their families  a priority. Magashi commended the officers and soldiers for their sacrifices toward ensuring an enduring peace in the country, adding that 2021 was an eventful one characterised by challenges, sober moments and records of successes. According to him, worthy of note is the gallant performance and sacrifices of the Nigerian army personnel in counterterrorism, counter insurgency and other operations across the country. The Commander, Army Headquarters Garrison, Maj.-Gen. Sanusi Dahiru, said that WASA was an enduring tradition of the Nigerian army, during which officers, soldiers and their families came together to socialise in a relaxed mood. Dahiru said the event also served as a vehicle to enhance esprit de corps and the spirit of brotherliness within a command and avenue to tangle and appreciate personnel for their individual and collective contributions toward the success of the command. He said the command diligently provided operational, administrative and logistic support to the army headquarters departments, formations and units, as well as successfully executing all training activities throughout 3922. He appreciated the Chief of Army Staff for exemplary leadership, passionate and selfless commitment to the welfare of personnel, assuring that the Garrison would do its best to sustain the tempo of achievements in 2022. “I wish to state that the personnel of the command are poised to carry out the activities with renewed vigor and commitment in terms of professionalism, responsiveness and commitment in the discharge of the constitutional duties,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event featured cultural display by different ethnic groups and a tug of war which featured  female members of the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) serving in the garrison and the magajias,  with the magajias winning. At 6p.m, the beating of the retreat (lowering of flags ceremony to signify the end of the year activities) and lighting of the camp fire was conducted by the minister of defence. (NAN)