By Ikenna Osuoha The Coalition of Societies for the Rights of Older Persons in Nigeria (COSROPIN), says it will recognise companies operating between 60 years and above in the country, with a national citizens’ award. Sen. Eze Ajoku, President of the Coalition, said this at the partners and stakeholders’ outreach meeting of the national corporate senior citizens initiative award in Abuja. Ajoku said the national citizens award was aimed at helping the country to create institutional memory, as well as appreciate their sustainability, capacity and service delivery framework. “The National Corporate Senior Citizens Award Initiative is an innovative national strategic initiative with international focus. “Designed to help our country create and develop institutional memory, reference and award protocols for corporate senior citizens from 60 years and above. “With a view to appreciating their sustainability, capacity, service delivery framework, partnership with government or communities and their innovative skills that has kept them running,” he said. The coalition boss, who emphasised the imperatives of recognising the contributions of viable corporate bodies to national development, said that the country needed to know the pioneers of her business eco-system. According to him, the award is designed to honour corporate senior citizens and institutions that are 60 years and above. He reiterated that the award initiative would go a long way in encouraging corporate institutions to strive for longevity and sustainability. Mr Ike Willie-Nwobu, President of the International Federation on Ageing (IFAN), said that effective management of the population was a roadmap to creating wealth, through national productivity. Willie-Nwobu, who described companies as national assets, said they drove activities for national growth. He lauded Sen. Eze Ajoku for an ingenuous initiative which, according to him, was capable of reviving the economy. Mrs Veronica Ugu, Director Public Affairs Department, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF), commended the leadership of the coalition for the initiative. Ugu also lauded Sen. Eze Ajoku for his commitment to improving the welfare of older persons in Nigeria, saying that the office of the secretary to government would support them. “The office of the SGF would know the area where we can come in to build this programme, because this is a very good initiative. “ Distinguished Senator, we thank you for the work you are doing so far.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the proposed National Senior Citizens Award Initiative is an innovative strategy with international focus, to help the country create and develop institutional memory. (NAN)