By Lizzy Okoji Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi has granted the Prince Abubakar Audu University, Anyigba total management of its Internally Generated Revenues (IGR). This followed the judicious use of funds and accountability of resources of the institution’s current leadership. Mr Onogwu Muhammed, Chief Press Secretary to the governor, disclosed this in a statement made available to journalists on Tuesday in Lokoja. The statement said that Bello made this known during his visit to the institution as part of its 6th Convocation ceremony. The governor was also awarded an honorary doctorate degree in Public Finance. It stated that the governor also inaugurated several projects in the university. They included administrative blocks, an office complex, a cashew processing plant and a well-equipped entrepreneurship center. Bello said that the current leadership has proven its probity, accountability and judicious use of resources. The statement further quoted Bello as pointing out that, ”his administration often matched words with action.” Bello stated that his drive for women inclusion in government has produced the first female University Vice Chancellor in the state- Prof. Marietu Tenuche. According to the governor, she has proven herself as a perfect representation of women in leadership. Bello noted: ” In just one year of her leadership, she has been able to introduce several infrastructural projects. ”Tenuche has also secured a 100% accreditation for  all the academic programmes of the institution.” The governor stated that Tenuche has managed the institution effectively, which showed clearly that she was a perfect choice. The governor asserted that Kogi state which was created in 1991 was now a star state under his leadership. This, according to him was owing to how the state has demonstrated unity, security and togetherness in spite of the challenges faced by the country. “The government inherited a state divided along ethnic, religious, political and several lines of division, but now could boast as the safest state in the country. “In the state, what qualifies anyone for leadership was the quality and value rendered and not their tribe, religion or affiliation. ”This is because the entire Kogi state’s resources are used for the citizens of the state,” the governor added. Bello urged the graduating students to learn from his administration’s leadership style and take same into the larger society. The governor urged: ”the older leaders who loved the country should leave the driver’s seat for the younger leaders.” Inaugurating the cashew processing plant, Bello said that it would boost the socioeconomic development of the state. Prof. Suleiman Bogoro, Executive Secretary, Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND), commended the university’s leadership for executing quality infrastructural projects. Bogoro also commended the institution for facilitating creative programmes, including the entrepreneurship center and the cashew processing plant.(NAN)