Gov. Dapo Abiodun of Ogun   By Abiodun Lawal After 28 years Interegnum, Gov. Dapo Abiodun of Ogun on Wednesday, installed the new Orimolusi of Ijebu Igbo, Oba Lawrence Adebajo, Ojuromi VI. Speaking at the installation ceremony held at Abusi Edumare lawns in Ijebu Igbo, the governor promised that his government would continue to prioritise the welfare and well being of traditional rulers. Abiodun said  that traditional rulers played a pivotal role in sustaining the rich cultural heritage of the people, saying they remained the custodians of value systems and norms. He added that traditional rulers  remained indispensable partners in the “Building Our Future Together Agenda of our administration”, and integral part of the state’s security architecture. “In this wise, the position of Ijebu-Igbo can not be over-emphasised. Ijebu Igbo, not only shares boundaries with other states, it is a centre of commerce and knowledge, attracting people from a variety of backgrounds. ” Against the backdrop of our inter-state security initiatives, such as Amotekun and the recent agreement between our state and Oyo over rising kidnapping, banditry and other manifestations of insecurity. “We will solicit the support of our Kabiyesi’s and Olorituns (Village heads) for instance, to support our efforts at nipping the scourge of crimes and criminality in the bud. “With all of us on the same page, there will be no hiding place for criminals and social upheavals will be reduced to the barest minimum,” he said. The governor appreciated the industrial and commercial nature of the Ijebu people specifically those from Ijebu-Igbo that had immensely improved the state economy. He urged the people to pay their taxes and rates to government so that the government would be able to provide infrastructure , especially in the rural areas. Abiodun said  that his administration would continue to implement programmes and policies to engage the youths positively. He said  that the government was doing everything possible to ensure that Ogun remained a trailblazer in youth development, human capital empowerment, economic growth and prosperity. “I am always traumatised beyond words when I hear of our youth’s involvement in the spate of killings and dismembering of human beings for ritual purposes. ” Money should not be the sole determinant of success. Integrity should count more. But, let me also warn that we shall deal decisively with anyone involved in any heinous crime in accordance with the relevant laws,” he said. In his speech, the newly installed traditional ruler thanked the people of Ijebu Igbo and the state government for their support, which brought about his installation. He sought the support of other traditional rulers to ensure the socio-economic and political development of Ijebu Igbo. He promised not to let the people down. Also speaking, Former Deputy Governor in the state, Sen. Sefiu Kaka, appreciated the governor for upholding the Yoruba culture. Kaka prayed for the peaceful and successful reign of the new Orimolusi.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng)