By Ismaila Chafe President Muhammadu Buhari has commended the efforts of Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed of Ethiopia for maintaining peace and unity in that country. Buhari also lauded the Ethopian PM for his dedication to ensuring fairness and justice in development. The President’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in a statement in Abuja, said Buhari made the commendation at a meeting between the two leaders at the headquarters of the African Union on Sunday, in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. The Nigerian leader said: “You are leading a country that is large and diversified, just like Nigeria, and I know the sacrifices required to make the desired impact, especially in maintaining peace.” The President urged the Ethiopian leader to stay focused on keeping the country together, in spite of the difficulties, assuring that Nigeria would continue to support efforts at peaceful co-existence and  unity. He said Ahmed had provided strong leadership for the country, encouraging him to sustain the good work in ensuring even development. In his remarks, the Prime Minister thanked the President for supporting his country over the years, on national and personal endeavours, particularly in encouraging unity and stability. Ahmed noted that the African continent had been slow in growth due to conflicts, adding that the larger economies, like Nigeria and Ethiopia,  should provide the leadership that would deepen progress and prosperity on the continent. The Prime Minister said the resurgence of coups on the continent could further weaken institutions and reverse the gains of democracy. He, however, appreciated the Nigerian leader for his position on zero tolerance for military interference in governance, saying that collective and visionary leadership would move Africa forward. The statement said both leaders agreed that African growth and development would require strong, visionary leadership that caters to the needs of the people, and effectively strengthens institutions that encourage peaceful co-existence, while providing disincentives to conflicts and coups. (NAN)