By Okon Okon Stakeholders of Open Government Partnership (OGP) have called on the National Assembly for the quick passage of SERVICOM Bill to enhance its services to Nigerians. The stakeholders made the call on Wednesday in Abuja, at a  zoom meeting which had nodal officers from MDAs, actors and non-state actors among others in attendance. The meeting was aimed at deliberating on the achievements of the agency and the preparations toward the public hearing on SERVICOM bill, coming up on Feb. 9 at the National Assembly. They said a lead agency such as SERVICOM needed legal backings to operate effectively to ensure that issues of service failures across MDAs were addressed. Mrs Nnenna Akajemeli, the National Coordinator SERVICOM, expressed delight on the commitment of the stakeholders for the meeting meant for driving service improvement by the agency to Nigerians. “The meeting is in preparation for the public hearing on SERVICOM bill which had passed through second hearing at the National Assembly. “The bill will enhance services of the agency to impact more on Nigerians when finally passed into law,” she said. According to Akajemeli, SERVICOM is the lead agency driving with commitment for improved service delivery in strong partnership with all the stakeholders, citizens for inclusiveness in governance. “We are working to connect citizens to government and government to citizens; we are working to hold service providers more accountable. “It’s time to begin to measure, it’s time to begin to gather data on customers’ service experiences and bring same to the public domain. “And it is also time to empower the citizens who come to take service from the government,” she said. Mr Chris Ugwuala, a non-state actor, expressed optimism that passing the bill would ensure the commitment the Federal Government had made under the OGP initiative by President Muhammadu Buhari, which is on record before other leaders of the world. “This will further ensure that Nigeria is rated high as one of those countries that have fulfilled its obligations under the OGP initiatives,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Compact with all Nigerians also known as SERVICOM was instituted in 2004 as a machinery for ensuring the delivery of effective public service delivery in Nigeria by all MDAs. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)