By Sumaila Ogbaje The Commandant Army War College Nigeria, (AWCN), Maj.-Gen Bamidele Alabi, says the college remains committed towards producing highly trained, highly motivated operational, strategic level leaders and senior commanders. Assistant Director, Army Public Relations for Guards Brigade, Capt. Godfrey Abakpa, said this in a statement in Abuja. Anakpa said that Alabi gave the assurance when he led a team of Senior Officers on a courtesy visit to the Commander Guards Brigade, Brig.-Gen. Muhammed Usman at the Brigade Headquarters on Monday in Abuja. He expressed his determination to deliver on the mandate of the Nigerian Armed Forces. The commandant stated that his vision for the college as its 5th commandant was to ensure that the college was institutionalised as the centre of excellence through sustenance of robust academic programmes, partnership and collaboration. According to him, the infrastructural development as well as staff training will be central to his administration towards placing the college as one of the best training institution for strategist and career senior commanders in the country. Alabi added that AWCN would continue to partner with the Guards Brigade to deliver on the various course contents that would equip participants to face the current and ever changing security environment especially the current insecurity confronting the nation. He commended the brigade for the support to the college so far rendered and called for more synergy to enable the college succeed and deliver on its mandate. Responding, the Commander Guards Brigade, Brig.-Gen. Usman, assured the commandant that the brigade would continue to provide every necessary support within it powers. Usman said that both the college and the guards brigade were working towards the goal of making the Nigerian army great. He congratulated the commandant on his appointment as the 5th commandant of AWCN, saying the appointment would positively impact on the college and wished him a successful tour of office. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)