By Folasade Akpan Mr Micheal Ohiani, the Acting Director-General (D-G), Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC), says the agency is working on providing appropriate accommodation for police officers and other Nigerians. According to Ohiani, this will be achieved using the Public Private Partnership (PPP) model. He said this while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja. According to him, for a country to be well policed like it is done in other climes, good accommodation has to be provided for policemen, which is why the PPP has been employed to bridge that gap. “On that note, we are working with the police to get them accommodation. “We have the Ikeja senior police quarters housing that is 11 blocks by six units of three bedroom housing units. “We did the inspection of the site and about two blocks have come up last week. “We also have the Maitama Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) quarters that is ongoing, we are at the negotiations stage. “We also have police housing which is mixed use in Falomo, Lagos, then we have the mixed used PPP housing in Guzape that will accommodate both police and civilians.” NAN reports that the Inspector-General of Police (I-GP) Mr Usman Baba, had said that the Nigeria Police Force was facing gross housing deficit as less than 10 per cent of its personnel had proper accommodation. He also said that a good living condition was important for optimal service delivery as housing was considered a fundamental physiological human need and the foundation on which to develop higher human motivation. Ohiani also said that PPP projects were underway to address the accommodation needs of other Nigerians. “We have a programme for student housing. We have done the Kaduna Polytechnic, we are doing 20,000 student hostels for University of Abuja. “We are also doing that of the University of Port Harcourt and a score of others. “However, you might also want to know that we are working with Federal Housing Authority (FHA) on a project called the Lugbe Housing project. “In fact, they have just brought the Outline Business Case (OBC) and we are working on that.” Ohiani added that there was also the Avu-Owerri federal housing project and another at Abia state which were being carried out in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing. He also said that there was a housing project in the pipeline for Federal Radio Corporation of  (FRCN) staff in Ikoyi, Lagos. NAN reports that ICRC was established to regulate PPP endeavours of the Federal Government aimed at addressing Nigeria’s physical infrastructure deficit which hampers economic development. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)