By Ikenna Uwadileke The Commodity Brokers Association of Nigeria (CBAN) on Monday in Abuja, inducted 51 new members into the association. Speaking at the investiture, the National President of the association, Alhaji Altine Kajiji, tasked the new members of the association on professionalism. Kajiji, who was represented by the Vice President of CBAN, Alhaji Mustapha Sani, stressed the need for members to adhere strictly to the system of rules, practices and processes guiding the sector. According to him, it is crucial in building trust with investors. While emphasising that the world is becoming specialised, Kajiji said that certification is the order of the day. “Agencies and customers will want to deal with a certified person so he will be sure he is with the right person,’’ he noted. He expressed optimism that the CBAN Bill currently at the National Assembly would receive accelerated attention to enhance operations and address the challenges facing the sector. “The bill has gone through first, second and third reading and it is ready for transmission to Mr President for accent. “CBAN has been struggling with the Nigerian Commodity Exchange to ensure the association continues to grow and serve its purpose in the society. “The food industry is important to the economy so for you to buy and sell you need to be trained and that is what CBAN is trying to achieve. “Without an organised market for buying and selling, many would not have achieved what they wanted to achieve,’’ he said. Mr Ude Oche, a Presentational Communicator, stressed that corporate governance was important to investors since it showed direction and business integrity. According to Oche, good corporate governance helps companies build trust with investors and the community. As a result, corporate governance helps promote financial viability by creating a long-term investment opportunity for market participants. Dr Saleh Kwaru, Registrar/Secretary General of CBAN, said that the association is supportive of the Federal Government’s drive to change the direction of Nigerian economy through agriculture. “There are lots of opportunities in this direction and we will do our best to explore the opportunities so as to change the narrative about hoarding and fluctuations. “We believe when the market is organised, distortions in the market will be controlled and government and the citizens will be better off for it,’’ Kwaru said. Speaking on behalf of the inductees, Dr Okechukwu Ani commended the association and pledged to be good ambassadors of CBAN. (NAN)