By Joseph Edeh The Progressive Youth Movement (PYM), said that it would resist the imposition candidates on the party at upcoming national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC). This is contained in a statement signed by the leader of PYM, Alhaji Mustapha Audu, on Saturday in Abuja. The News agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Gov. Mai Mala Buni led-Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee has fixed Feb. 26 for the APC national convention. “We implore the committee not to bring any aged individual with a clear disconnect from the majority of members within the party. “We will resist imposition of any candidate that is simply too old for the job of the chairman of the party,“ he said. Audu said that as the party goes into an election year, it was imperative that it has an individual capable of withstanding the vigour of campaign. “We also implore our leaders to ensure that there are positions reserved for young stakeholders within the party,“ he said. Audu also implored the committee to involve all stakeholders in the selection process to avoid rancor in the party. “As the majority stakeholders in the party, we expect that the committee will take certain factors into consideration if it decides to select a consensus candidate,“ he said. Audu urged the committee to keep to its promise to hold the convention on the fixed date as stakeholders had waited patiently. “We believe that holding the convention on that date will exhibit the sincerity and integrity of the Buni led-committee. “We believe in the APC and her capacity to conduct a peaceful and free convention where majority of her members will be  happy with the outcome,“ he said. He said that the group would continue to support and be loyal to the party to restore its original values which won the hearts of Nigerians in 2015. Audu advised the committee to be transparent in order to ensure the success of the party in the 2023 General Elections. NAN reports that PYM is political group within the APC.(NAN)