By Nana Musa The National Pension Commission (PenCom) said that only pensioners that have completed the online enrollment would receive payment and advised those yet to enroll online to do so as it’s a major prerequisite. The Head, Corporate Communications of PenCom, Mr Peter Aghahowa, confirmed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday. “For those that have enrolled their payment is been processed now and payment will commence soon. The online enrollment has been on for a long time and it’s a basic criterion for every pensioner to do,” Aghahowa said. He said that any payment to be done would be based on those that have completed the online enrollment. “This is a transition period from manual to automated enrollment and the commission has made effort to enlighten pensioners, retirees are advised to enroll online.” He urged the enrolled pensioners to be patient, as the commission is working assiduously to ensure that they are paid. The PenCom, in September 2021, advised employees of Federal Government treasury-funded Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), who retired between January and August 2021, to enrol online for their yearly pre-retirement verification exercise. PenCom also extended the advice to employees of Federal Government treasury-funded MDAs who are due to retire from September 2021 and those who missed the enrolment exercises in previous years. The management of PenCom pointed out that the verification and enrolment by all concerned must be completed with their respective Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) by Oct. 29, 2021. It explained that those concerned have options for enrolment such as self-assisted and Pension Desk Officer (PDO)/PFA-Assisted. It advised retirees/prospective retirees for the year 2021 to visit PenCom’s website to initiate the online enrolment process. According to PenCom, the self-assisted is done by registering and capturing employment details as well as uploading scanned copies of required documents before proceeding to the respective PFA for physical verification and enrolment. Aghahowa told NAN that the online enrolment application went live on Sept. 1, 2021 and retirees and prospective retirees were given a deadline of Oct. 29, 2021 to conclude the enrolment process, which was later extended till Dec. 31, 2021. “However the enrollment is still on going.” He explained that only employees of Federal Government Treasury-Funded MDAs are eligible to participate in the 2021 online verification and enrollment exercise. “Employees who retired from January to October 2021, employees who are due to retire from November to December 2021, and retirees that missed the previous enrollment exercises from 2007 to 2019. “Self-Assisted Registration, the affected retirees/prospective retirees are required to visit PenCom’s website www.pencom.gov.ng to initiate the online enrollment process by registering and capturing their employment details. “Also, they should upload scanned copies of the required documents before proceeding to their respective Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) for the physical verification and enrollment,” Aghahowa said. He said that the PDO PFA-Assisted Registration, retirees, prospective retirees who are unable to complete their online registration could approach the PDOs of their respective MDAs or visit their PFAs for assistance. NAN, recalls that on Dec. 29, the Federal Government approval the release of funds for the payment of accrued pension rights under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). The FG released N16.67 billion for the payment of accrued pension rights to the 2021 retirees of Treasury-funded Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). Also, FG had earlier settled all arrears of accrued pension rights payments to the verified and enrolled retirees up to December 2020. (NAN)