By Salisu Sani-Idris The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has partner with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to improve hygiene and meat handling practices, using advanced technologies in Abuja abattoirs. The Mandate Secretary for FCT Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat, Malam Abubakar Ibrahim, made the disclosure when a team from JICA paid a courtesy call on the secretariat, on Thursday in Abuja. Ibrahim said the measure was part of effort to standardise abattoir operations in the nation’s capital. The secretary expressed hope that JICA’s interest in the abattoir sector would compliment FCTA’s efforts toward meeting the desired standards in meat handling practices across the territory. Ibrahim said the visit was no doubt significant in so many ways, considering the renewed interest of the secretariat to standardize abattoir operations by addressing the important issues of infrastructural decay. He also said that the secretariat had ensure constant inspection of meat, pollution, sanitation as well as stamping out the use of tyres to process cow skin. ” Let me use this opportunity to intimate you that my boss, the Minister of State, FCT, Dr Ramatu Aliyu has been a strong advocate of the Public Private Partnership (PPP) initiative as an effective strategy in addressing our country’s developmental challenges. “JICA has no doubt proven to be worthy partners in progress that is why I assure you of our readiness to work with you towards repositioning the agricultural sector. ” As you undertake a visit to our abattoirs with members of my management team, I urge you to feel free to bare your minds on any issue that may require our clarifications. ” I have already directed the Director Veterinary Services to furnish me with a report on the visit to guide us on the our next line of action.” Earlier, Country Representative of JICA, Sasaike Jako, said hygiene was the critical problem, and the organisation was looking out for how to bring in Japanese technologies into Nigerian Abattiors. Sasaike stated that the initiative was a product of a collaboration between the government and JICA, targeted at improving meat handling practices using advanced technologies. Similarly, Dr Umar Haliru, a representative of JICA, commended FCTA for making JICA relevant in the development of the FCT, which paved way the longtime relationship between both parties. Also, the Director Veterinary Services at the Secretariat, D Regina Adulugba, said the partnership would set a standard for what a modern abattoir should be. She explained that the structure and areas to be considered for upgrade comprised veterinary slaughter points, carcasses processing tables with running water and animal skin gas burning points, among others.(NAN)