By Salisu Sani-Idris The Peoples Alliance for Indigenous Rights (PAIR), has commended the FCT Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Aliyu, for challenging the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to improve on the functionality of the Bimodal Voters Accreditation Systems (BVAS). The National Coordinator of the group, Mr Isa Pai, made the commendation in a statement made available to newsmen on Saturday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) report that following the outcome of the recently-concluded FCT Area Council elections, the minister urged INEC to, as a matter of urgency, improve on the functionality of the BVAS. The minister gave the charge at the presentation of Certificates of Returns to the newly-elected Chairmen and Councillors of the area council elections, on Friday. The group said the suggestion of the minister was widely applauded by critical stakeholders who monitored the FCT Area council elections, including the Civil Society Organisations and the media. The national coordinator of the group debunked media reports that the minister’s suggestion was heckled at during the presentation of the certificates of returns to the elected area council chairmen. “Peoples Alliance for Indigenous Rights (PAIR) found it necessary to dismiss a media report that the Minister of State, FCT, Dr Ramatu Aliyu, was heckled at the presentation of Certificates of Return to newly-elected area council chairmen on Friday. “Because those who applauded the minister’s suggestion to the INEC were overwhelming. Some media houses need to guard their integrity like a woman’s honour. “For a newspaper to twist facts when the minister was widely applauded bothers on mischief and a new narrative of some individuals to taint the hard-earned reputation of the minister as unfortunate.” According to the group, the minister has continued to receive commendations, one of which was from Journalists Union, the NUJ FCT, over her exemplary leadership and accommodating administrative style when she paid an unscheduled visit to the union. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)