By Salisu Sani-Idris Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) on Thursday unveiled the Enoch and Folu Adeboye Dialysis Centre at Wuse District Hospital, Abuja, as part of efforts at boosting healthcare delivery system in the territory. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the centre is equipped with eight dialysis machines, one medical water reverse osmosis purification system and one 30 KVA generator. NAN also reports that the facility was donated by the charity arm of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG). Unveiling the centre, the FCT Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Aliyu, advocated for subsided dialysis cost in view of the present economic realities. The minister, who quoted copiously from the holy book to buttress the significance of the dialysis centre, noted that kidney disease, when detected early could be managed and corrected. Aliyu noted that the FCT Administration in response to the rising incidence of chronic kidney disease in 2013, operated two public dialysis and intensive care units in the district hospitals at Wuse and Asokoro Districts. She called on Nigerian Association of Nephrology and other health stakeholders to intensify public enlightenment on lifestyle changes as well as control of orthodox and traditional drug abuse, to prevent and control kidney diseases and other non-communicable diseases. She commended the leadership of the church for the choice of a life-saving project, particularly at the time of rising number of cases of kidney disease. Aliyu noted that the church was beginning to play one of its crucial roles of caring for the downtrodden in the society. “March 2 of every year is World Kidney Day and this allows for awareness creation and free testing for early detection of kidney disease, especially in clients with hypertension and diabetes. “Weight, urea, electrolytes, creatinine and cholesterol level checks, with evaluation of proteins in urine, among others, are additional tests necessary for early detection of kidney disease,” she said. Earlier, the Intercontinental Overseer, Christian Social Responsibility of the church, Pastor Iluyomade, said that the Abuja dialysis centre would be the 20th in the series of specialised medical interventions donated by the church. He added that the church had also built and donated intensive care unit, dialysis centres, cancer screening centre and primary healthcare centres. Iluyomade further stated that, till date, the Enoch and Folu Adeboye Dialysis Centre had donated 37 dialysis machines in Nigeria. He added that the centre had conducted more than 30,000 subsidised and free dialysis sessions and partnered with other agencies to carry out six kidney transplant for free. “In 2021, the foundation donated a full-fledged dialysis centre to Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Shagamu, from which 106 patients had benefitted. “The foundation, in partnership with Mercy Ship International Floating Hospital, has conducted life- changing corrective surgeries for various people. “The foundation also rehabilitated the Resettlement Community Primary Healthcare Centre, Ajah, Lagos, among others,” Iluyomade said. (NAN)