By Maureen Okon President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed commitment to deepen democracy in the country and set the right example for the rest of Africa by ensuring free, fair and credible elections in 2023. Buhari stated this on Monday in Abuja, at the 16th Edition of the Nigerian National Diaspora Day celebration 2022, and 4th to be hosted by the Nigerians in the Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) The day, which is  celebrated on July 25, annually is with the theme: Diaspora Engagement in Global Challenging Times for National Development The President, who was represented his Chief of Staff, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, said success of Nigeria’s democracy would stop the recourse to unconstitutional change in government in the sub region and other parts of the African continent. The African continent had in the last one year witnessed military takeover in Chad, Mali, Guinea Bissa, Burkina Faso and Sudan. Buhari said: “As you are all aware that the processes to our national elections in 2023 have continued to progress smoothly and consistent with the laws of our land and our Constitution. “I have repeatedly assured of my personal commitment, as well as that of my administration to ensuring that the processes continue to be transparent, to be credible, to be free and fair, leading to a smooth elections and transmission, transition to the next government. “This is the only way we can deepen democracy in Nigeria, and set the right example for the rest of Africa and hopefully, stop the recourse to unconstitutional change in government in our sub region and other parts of the African continent.” He also said that the Federal Government held Nigerians in the Diaspora in high esteem due to their immense contributions to national development. Buhari said that the celebration was an opportunity to address over 17 million Nigerians in the Diaspora on the great occasion set aside to celebrate Nigeria’s best in the world. “This celebration is in recognition of your contributions to national development and networking them to ministries, departments, agencies of government, and states diaspora focal point officers and civil society organisations in Nigeria. “Let me reiterate that our government has held and will continue to hold our citizens in the Diaspora in the highest esteem and this is evidenced the following. “The passage of the Nigerians in the Diaspora Commission Establishment Act in 2017, the establishment and kick-off of the commission in 2019, the approval and abduction of the national Diaspora policy 2021. “The presentation of the compendium of the ‘+ 600 Diaspora Icons at 60’, which remains a historic record of the worth of our compatriot globally. `This auspicious celebration of our national Diaspora Day in 2022 was birthed in the national Diaspora Policy 2021, which prescribed July 25, as a day to celebrate Nigerians in the Diaspora. Buhari said this year’s theme, Diaspora Engagement in a Globally Challenging Time for national development “is apt, considering our experiences with COVID-19 pandemic”. “I am most impress that you all took time out to participate in this event in spite of the distances most of you have to cover and the differences in the time zones. “This simply testifies to your resilence as Nigerians and your commitment to national unity and its development. I cannot forget to thank NiDCOM , the Directorate of Cooperation in Africa , Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation world-wide. Others are Zumuta Association USA Inc. Central Association of Nigerians in the United Kingdom amongst others,  that had contributed one way or the other to the successful organisation and realisation of this event. Earlier, Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, NiDCOM Chairman/CEO, said that the celebration was important because the commission celebrated three years in May, giving credence to the constructive engagement and participation of those in the Diaspora. She commended the cooperation of the Nigerians in Diaspora, “which is the essence of its establishment”. “The Nigerians in the Diaspora are worthy of being celebrated because they are achievers and good ambassadors, who are putting their best in all they do. “In spite of the challenging times, the Nigerians in Diaspora are participating in various investments that are leading to development in Nigeria. “The realisation of these success stories of the Diaspora is adduced to the existing platform of NiDCOM, which has led to some African countries visiting Nigeria to learn how to associate and manage their Diaspora globally. “Bearing in mind the huge potential of the Diaspora and the impact of their remittances to the economy of their country,’’ Dabiri-Erewa said. Mrs Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, the Chairman, House Committee on Diaspora Affairs, applauded the commission for organising the event in spite of challenging times and the administration of Buhari for supporting the mandate. “Tacking these challenges will require a multi-faceted approach that will involve all well-meaning Nigerians both home and abroad. “A critical component of this approach is our Diaspora, our people who are known to possess the resources, skills and the funds that will contribute towards reviving our falling economy and restoring security in our land,’’ she said. (NAN) =========== Edited by Grace Yusuff