By Yakubu Uba The North East Development Commission (NEDC) on Wednesday presented state-of-the-art equipment to the 7 Division Medical Services and Hospital, Maiduguri. The equipment comprised five-part haemotology analyser, high frequency mobile X-Ray machine,  full-automatic analyser, V100 spectrophometre and electrolyte analyser. The Managing Director of NEDC, Mr Mohammed Alkali, said at the event that the commission was committed to interventions in healthcare system in the North East. Alkali lauded the military for efforts in restoring peace and normalcy to the region. He also assured the military of the commission’s support in its de-radicalisation programme. In his remarks,  Minister of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management Sadiya Umar-Farouk also lauded the military for  sacrifices to the nation. The minister was represented by  the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Dr Nasir Gwarzo. She gave the assurance that the commission would sustain its support for the military. “What you are doing is not saving lives but also shaping the country. “Make the best use of the equipment to save lives. A lot more will come,” the minister  said. In an address of welcome,  the Commander of the hospital,  Lt. Col. Adeniyi Ogunsakin, listed some  donations to the hospital from the commission to include an ambulance. Ogunsakin thanked the commission for support, saying that the equipment would help to improve the hospital’s performance. The General Officer Commanding 7 Division,  Maj.-Gen. Waidi Shuaibu, and the Theatre Commander,  Operation Hadin Kai in North East, Maj.-Gen. Christopher Musa, also lauded the commission for sustained support.  They gave the assurance  that the facilities would be properly used. “We will ensure maintenance for maximum benefit,” Musa said. The highpoint of the occasion was tour of the hospital and interactions of the personalities with wounded soldiers who were receiving treatment. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports the commission had earlier made a similar donation  to the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital and University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Ijeoma Popoola