By Bridget Ikyado The Pan -African Catholic Congress on Theology, Society and Pastoral life, has called on African countries to preach peace and unity, to further enhance development in the continent. This is contained in a statement by Rev. Patrick Alumuku, Head Media and Communications, Our Lady Queen of Nigeria Pro -Cathedral on Sunday in Abuja. The congress made the call at the end of the second Pan-African Congress on Theology, Society, and Pastoral Life, held at the Catholic University of Eastern Africa in Nairobi, Kenya. “As members of the family of God in Africa, we pray and resolve to work together toward building a synodal and vital church in Africa. “We pray that God through His son, will lead us to see the surprises of the Holy Spirit in our uniqueness and diversity. “We are members of the people of God from the following African countries; Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cote d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea and Ethiopia. “Others are, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Nigeria, Senegal, South Africa, South Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Zimbabwe, and people in solidarity from all other continents,” it said. The clerics said they affirm the vitality of the Catholic Church in Africa, as a sign of hope for the world. The congress said that the participants in Nairobi reflected on the theme: Walking Together for a Vital Church for Africa and the World. The clerics said the founding moment established new relationships, some of which had developed into the on-going collaborations and common interests. “The pan African congress in accord with our collective African palaver and discernment, made the following commitment. “On Synodality, we commit to the full participation of the whole people of God in the life of the church. “In particular, we call for a gospel-driven servant leadership in our churches, that overcomes clericalism and the wounded, the broken and those at the existential peripheries,” it stated. It said the vision of the vision of synodality of the clerics must also include a prophetic collaboration with their immediate African societies. The congress said African societies ecological and social challenges must be guided by the wisdom of “Laudato Si’ and Fratelli Tutti”. It added that the clerics were committed to a synodal relationship with the world at-large, which included collaborating with partners around the world, that worked toward justice, peace and reconciliation, as seeds of the kingdom of God. On African Women, the clerics noted that the clerics were commit to a critical engagement with the cultural structures playing out in the African societies, that limited the rights of women to self-actualisation. “We are committed to advocating for the eradication of various practices of abuse of women and girls, for example, sexual abuse. “Other practices such as forced marriages, gender mutilation, new forms of slavery and human trafficking have also been identified. “We commit to fully supporting, promoting and advocating for the flourishing of women and girls in our African societies and churches,” it added. On the youth and and children, they said clerics would embrace policies that were intended to protect children from all forms of abuses in families, churches, and society. “We are also committed to celebrating the gifts and talents of our children and empowering them to a full realisation of their dreams. “We are committed to developing networks of collaboration between churches in Africa and beyond, to enhance prophetic Christian witness in the world. “We will also support advancing a healthy dialogue between churches, religions and African spiritual traditions, for the purpose of mutual growth and peace. “We will also listen, dialogue and collaborate with other churches, faith communities, civil authorities and social actors, to promote a sustainable way of life in our continent and world,” it stated. It noted that the group noted that the vision of the Pan-African Catholic Theology and Pastoral Network was aimed at bridging the gap between pastoral practices, scientific and multi-disciplinary works in the continent. “It is about listening to God, the cry of our mother earth and to the concerns of our people, in order to help them live flourishing lives, rooted in our Christian faith and our African spiritual and religious traditions. “Our active listening explains the choice of the theme of this second congress; Walking Together for a Vital Church in Africa and in the World,” it stated. The congress also noted that the congress was focused on synodality; the experiences of African women and children and the challenges and prospects of building a vital church in Africa. It added that the Pan-African Congress recognised the resilience of the African family amidst the challenges of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. “We mourn with many families who lost their loved ones. We continue to support our people with prayers and solidarity in these difficult times. “We call on all our churches and governments to support families, as they struggle to rebuild their lives,” the statement noted. It added that the clerics recognised the crucial role of women in society and the church in Africa, adding that they also acknowledged the priority of children who suffered so much abuse and are at the center of family and community care as a sign of the new humanity. “We welcome with gratitude the message addressed to the congress participants by His Holiness, Pope Francis at the inaugural Mass, for the opening of the congress. “We embrace fully his call for a synodal church and commit our theological and pastoral reflections to advancing processes and practices for a synodal church in Africa. “We also appreciate the messages of the Secretary-General of the Synod of Bishops, Cardinal Mario Grech and the Association of Member Episcopal conferences in Eastern Africa.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ======== Edited by Chinyere Nwachukwu/Sadiya Hamza