By Perpetua Onuegbu The Secretary to the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC),Dr Jumoke Oduwole, has expressed pleasure over the Business Facilitation (Miscellaneous Provision) Bill 2022, also known as the “Omnibus Bill” that passed second reading at the Senate on Wednesday. Oduwole, who  in a statement on Thursday, in Abuja, lauded the Senate effort said the Bill was an intervention of PEBEC. “It is aimed at consolidating and amending outdated legislative provisions towards removing bottlenecks for micro, small and medium enterprises,” she said. According to her, the bill seeks to ensure the Sustainability of business climate and give statutory force to Executive Order 001 of 2017 on the promotion of Transparency and Efficiency in Business. She had also at another forum explained that the Omnibus Bill was aimed at amending specific laws relating to ease of doing business which will then be made into single legislation to act as a catalyst for legislative reform of the Nigerian business climate. According to her, the overall benefits of the Bill include ensuring efficiency in public service delivery in terms of time, cost, and procedure for doing business, improving transparency, removing outdated provisions from relevant laws, and providing incentives to encourage Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) participation in business. While giving further highlights of the Bill, she explained that the codification of the Presidential Executive Order 001 (001) requires MDAs to publish licenses, permits, waivers, approvals, and other related information, among other things, in order to improve transparency and public access to information. “Others are amendment of the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) 2020 with the recognition of electronic share certificates, electronic voting at annual general meetings, and other information is in tandem with technology best practices. “The provisions of Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA) Act and CAMA have been reconciled to recognize the exemption of free trade zone companies licensed by NEPZA from company registration.” She stressed that the Bill also provided for ease in the procedure for increase in share capital by including the option for such decisions to be determined by a resolution of the Board of Directors, subject to the provisions in the articles of association of the company or by the company in general meeting. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that the that the Federal Executive Council approved the bill on March 23, 2022, which was a culmination of four years of collaborative work by public and private sector stakeholders in the legal community. It was anchored by the PEBEC through a sub-committee led by the Attorney General of the Federation. It was implemented by a technical working group with the Federal Ministry of Justice legal drafting team and representatives from leading law firms and consultancy firms. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ====== Edited by Isaac Aregbesola