By Maureen Okon The Federal Government and the European Union (EU) Delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS, on Friday presented a report on the value chain analysis study on maize. This is contained in statement by the bloc and made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. The collaboration was done between the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and the bloc through an organised stakeholders’ workshop to present the report of a value chain analysis on maize in Nigeria It was undertaken in the framework of the EU-funded “Value chain analysis for development” (VCA4D) project. According to the statement, the workshop was held in Kano and Abuja on July 12 and 14 respectively, following the completion of the study. “The study was conducted by a team of national and international experts from Agrinatura – the Alliance of European Universities and Research Centres specialising in agricultural research for development. “The study was between January 2020 and October 2021, the EU mandated Agrinatura to undertake a detailed overview of the maize value chain from the economic, social and environmental point of view. “Nigeria is one of the world’s leading maize producers, especially of non-genetically modified white maize. With a demand on the rise both as food and from the processing industry, the country is nonetheless still exposed to risks of supply shortfall. “The study generated evidence-based knowledge, largely quantitative, to help policy makers underpin and fine-tune policy actions and interventions in the value chain, to enhance its sustainable and inclusive development. The Value Chain Analysis for Development (VCA4D) analysis provides a baseline, useful to appreciate the evolution of the sector over time, also in contexts of investment (like the one promoted by EDFI AgriFi). “The two workshops publicised the findings and recommendations of the VCA4D study to promote their use in relevant policy discussions and investment decisions.” It said the workshops also contributed to build a platform for continued networking and advocacy on actions to strengthen the maize value chain. It further added that a number of stakeholders from institutions, farmers’ organisations and the private sector actively participated in the workshops. NAN reports that BCA4D is an EU funded project implemented by Agrinatura, the Alliance of European Universities and Research centres specialised in agricultural research for development with more than 35 members. Mobilised at the request of the EU Delegations and their partner countries, VCA4D realises value chains analyses to produce evidence-based and inter-disciplinary knowledge about the growth, inclusiveness, social and environmental sustainability of a value chain. Interested persons can check the VCA4D page or contact vca4d@agrinatura-eu.eu to be further informed. (NAN) ======== Edited by Idris Abdulrahman