By Sumaila Ogbaje Rebirth Coalition, a Civil Society Organisation, says the recent appraisal of the ongoing military operation by the European Union (EU) is a confirmation of the Nigerian military’s commitment to restoring peace to the country. This is contained in a statement by the Convener of the Coalition, Oladapo Bolaji and the Secretary, Hassan Danladi on Tuesday in Abuja. The coalition said the EU delegation’s visit to the Theatre Command, Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK), had also reaffirmed the effort of the military in supporting economic development. They said the EU Delegation, led by its Managing Director for Africa, Mrs Rita Laranjinha, was accompanied by EU Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr Samuel Isopi and other EU and United Nations officials. According to the coalition, the delegation commended the Nigerian military for its ongoing efforts at restoring peace in the North East during the visit. “It further commended troops for their resilience, bravery and sacrifice in the face of daunting challenges. “Delegation leader, Mrs Laranjinha, expressed delight over the beautiful sight and calm nature of the one-time most troubled region in Nigeria,” the coalition said. The group also said the EU had, during a visit to illegal refining sites in Rivers, commended the Joint Task Force (JTF), and Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), for the great work done to salvage and restore the Nigerian oil and gas sector. They said the EU’s testimonial was a confirmation that the military was bold in tackling the various security challenges facing the country. “It is an assurance that Nigeria will definitely win the current war. “The coalition is reassured by the words of the EU delegation that the various efforts of the Armed Forces of Nigeria under Gen. Lucky Irabor will eventually restore peace in the places facing security challenges. “We are also assured that economic development will be boosted as the JTF decisively tackle oil thieves in the Niger-Delta region. “Nigerians must not allow criminals instill fear into us, we must continue to support and pray for the military. We, in the Rebirth Coalition, see light at the end of the tunnel,” they said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)