Caritas Nigeria and CSN members   By Bridget Ikyado Caritas Nigeria in collaboration with the Church and Society Department of the Catholic Secretariat of Nigeria on Thursday in Abuja outlined key resolutions in addressing the many ecological challenges in Nigeria. This is contained in a communique signed by Most Rev. Dr. Martins Adewale, Episcopal Chairman, Church and Society, and Metropolitan of Lagos Archdiocese. Adewale said this called for an all-inclusive engagement in addressing the many ecological challenges was for the legislators to promulgate ecological friendly-laws. “Government agencies will implement ecological-sane policies, schools adopt ecological sustainable courses, while the church is to embrace ecological spirituality.” He said the Catechism on ecological sustainability should be adopted to encourage families to live out the values that care for the earth and promote healthy environmental culture even within homes. He said that such cultures include tree planting, energy conservation and the use of bio-degradable materials “There is dire need to address the socio-economic inequalities among occupants of the earth as a means to arrest the consumerist approach to existence. “Conversations on this should be advanced by local, regional and international governments to adopt policies that will bridge the inequality gaps and encourage climate justice for all. “The health sector must be strengthened to serve the need of all creation by encouraging.” Adewale said that aternative medical services and products other than inorganic ones and advocacy and campaign groups should continue herald awareness, advocacies and campaigns on environmental justice. “This can be done by employing the use of hashtag campaigns, fellowship programmes, volunteer movements, clubs and societies in schools and the use of social media to cover the digital space.” He also listed strengthened collaboration amongst various stakeholders in ecological sector an an indispensable tool for an overall attainment of ecological serenity and such must be encouraged at all levels. “This will increase commitment and efforts in building ecological sustainable structures, and encourage dialogue, “Organisations should adopt ecological-friendly working culture such as alternative energy sources, paperless workflow, and the reduction in the use of fossil oil.” Adewale explained that the two days summit was an ample focus on analysing the impact of environmental decadence in Nigeria and the need for collaborative efforts to subvert the challenges occasioned by these ecological challenges. “ The summit was attendedby over 70 participants drawn from various institutions in the Church as well as Ministries, Departments, and Agencies and Civil Society Organisations.” He said that the summit using the numerous ecological decadences, pointed out the effects of unchecked activities such as destruction of soil ecology, plastic wastes, land grabbing and illegal mining, “which have all brought us innumerable hardships”. “The Laudato Si encyclical is part of an ongoing dialogue on ecological discuss which include 6 chapters thus: What is happening to our common home?; Gospel of creation?; Human roots of ecological crisis; Integral ecology with lines of approach and action, and Ecological education and spirituality. “ The Summit intended to instill some forms of state-sanctioned ecological sanity by requesting state authorities to implement ecologically- friendly policies; teach ecologically-friendly courses, and profess an ecological spirituality.” He said the objective of the summit was for all intents and purposes to contribute to the ongoing discourse on the need for ecological sustainability. “ It is aimed at refueling and stimulating conversations and efforts geared towards the serenity of our common home and to also map outlines of actions. “And consolidate collaborations for the attainment of the goals heralded by Latdate St as espoused by His Holiness, Pope Francis.’’ (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) Edited by Grace Yusuff