By Adekunle Williams The Lagos State House of Assembly has denied the report that it secretly passed a Sharia Bill to get support of northerners for the APC Presidential Candidate, Sen. Bola Tinubu. The Chairman, House Committee on Information, Security and Strategy, Mr Setonji David, made this known in a statement  on Wednesday in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that an online media had reported that the assembly hurriedly passed a bill to set up Sharia courts,  paving way for Sharia law in Lagos state.   The media report also alleged that the bill had been signed into law by Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. David, representing Badagry II, however said the report was a mere figment of the imagination of the writer. He said no informed person should believe such  lies against the assembly, adding that the news was far from the reality. He said, “The attention of the Lagos State House of Assembly has been drawn to a malicious and unfounded report making the rounds on social media. ” That the assembly has secretly passed a Sharia law in a deal to get northern support for  Tinubu, the APC Presidential Candidate. “We will not have dignified the writer of this hate speech but in order to set the records straight, this is a mere figment of the imagination of the writer and a total lie from the pit of hell. “No informed person should believe this lie against the assembly that is above the common standard of excellence. The news is far from  reality. “Some people are just mischievous. Spreading all sorts of untrue stuff. Is it possible to pass a law under cover? “The process of law making is universal and very open. You cannot pass a law without subjecting it to public hearing in Lagos state.” David urged residents of the state and Nigerians as a whole to take the peddlers of this unfounded report as uninformed, and uneducated people who needed to be schooled about the law making process. He said Tinubu was a fast selling product across the country and does not need any law from the state to further endear him to all Nigerians. The lawmaker said by the special grace of God,  Tinubu would emerge winner of the 2023 presidential election to the shame of purveyors of the hate news. (NAN) Edited by Chioma Ugboma