Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa  By Ifeanyi Olannye Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta and Vice Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Thursday swore in four commissioners with a charge to be devoted, loyal and accountable. Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa Okowa, who gave the charge while performing the function at Government House in Asaba, charged them to deploy their expertise to serve the people of the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the commissioners were assigned their portfolios as: Mr Samuel Mariere , Water Resources; Chief Sunday Onoriode, Primary Education; Chief Mike Okah, Transport and Chief Godspower Asiuwhu, Ministry of Environment. Okowa congratulated the new commissioners and charged them to discharge their new responsibilities with dedication and diligence in the overall interest of the people. He said, “As you are all aware, we are gradually moving towards the end of our second term in office. “We have before us, many urgent challenges arising from the committed pursuit of our critical projects, including the inevitable pressures of the politics of the future. “It is, therefore, necessary that we face our tasks with our best available expertise and be devoted as we represent the aspirations of our people. “You have come in at a time when this administration is not only taking stock of what it has accomplished so far in meeting the desires and aspirations of the people. “But also accelerating action and increased articulation of those things still outstanding in the development of the state as we clearly set out from the onset. “Therefore, expect that you will put in your very best efforts for the benefit of the entire state and its people. “In your various portfolios, we expect you to serve with integrity, devotion, loyalty and accountability because all eyes are on us as we have pledged to finish strong”. He added, “It is our expectation that you will provide fresh ideas and a new impetus to support the government in consolidating its legacy projects among others. ” And also in  building a sustainable foundation for our economy and moving the politics of Delta state to a higher level of humility, justice, harmony and fair play as you serve our people. “Let me remind you that this assignment will be especially challenging, as we seek to accomplish most of our projects and other commitments under a disciplined financial regime and urgency, “This is more imperative especially as the seasons of expectations of our citizens, active politics and elections fever begin to emerge. “We must suck in all the pressure with sound composure, discipline and transparent commitment and purpose driven focus. “These are the only ways you can assist our government to leave the desired legacy of service in Delta State, while also endearing yourselves to our dear people who expectedly continue to expect the best from us.” Responding on behalf of the commissioners, Mariere thanked God for the appointment and appreciated the governor for finding them worthy to serve, assuring that they would assist him in his finishing strong agenda.(NAN) (www.nannews.ng)# IO/JTJ Edited by Julius Toba-Jegede