RCCG Men Convention FCT     By Bridget Ikyado Pastor Chris Olukolade of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) has urged men to trust and believe God for assistance in the face of prevailing challenges. Olukolade who is in charge of Province 16 of the RCCG in the FCT, made the call during the redeemers Men Fellowship 2022 men’s convention with the theme: “In his Image” on Saturday in Abuja. The pastor described fathers as the backbone of every home and as such, should be patient and full of wisdom. He urged men to be quick in making amends and taking corrections to ensure things went right in the homes, society and the country at large. He said the men’s fellowship and the Church were blessed with knowledge which was the reason for the annual gathering. “The convention sharpens and shapens the interest and joys of families beyond mere gatherings on Sunday. ” We are given insight to life generally as if affects health, finances and our social life. Pastor Paul Adebisi, Coordinator of the Redeemers Men Fellowship, RCCG Region 10, said the theme of the convention was apt. He urged Christians to be a light in the society, to eliminate evils that had befallen the society. “Change from evil to good; it attracts good health, longer life and better society and country.” He also advised all men to participate in the upcoming elections by voting and be voted, for the change we deserve. Pastor Michael Oluwole, President of the Redeemers Men Fellowship, said God was set to reenact His original purpose for man in our lives and families. According to him, it is the prayer that the convention will enlist men to the realms of fruitfulness, authority and dominion as ordained for mankind from foundation of creation. “As men we will have to arise to obtain our portion of God’s provisions for our destiny ” I pray this convention will launch us into the required fulfilled purpose as leaders in our various homes and ministries.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the convention featured programmes on health talks on the causes of prostate cancer, symptoms, risk factors and treatment. It also featured lectures on security awareness and managing family finances. The three-day convention ends on Sunday with a thanksgiving service.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) BTT/JPE/IA Edited by Joseph Ede/Idris Abdulrahman