By AbdulFatai Beki The Kwara House of Assembly on Tuesday confirmed the appointment of five commissioner nominees submitted by Gov. AbdulRahman  AbdulRazaq. The confirmation of the nominees was sequel to their thorough screening at the Committee of Whole at the plenary. The newly confirmed commissioners are Afeez Abolore Alabi from Ilorin East; Adenike Afolabi Oshatimehin – Ifelodun; Wahab Femi Agbaje – Offa; Gidado Lateef Alakawa – Asa; and Ibrahim Akaje – Ilorin West. The Speaker, Mr Yakuhu Danladi, thereafter directed the Clerk of the House, Hajia Haleemah Kperogi, to communicate the notice of the confirmation to the governor. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the confirmed commissioners are expected to replace some cabinet members who resigned their appointments recently to pursue political ambitions. Also during Tuesday’s plenary, the suspension of the lawmaker representing Ilorin-South Constituency, Mr Raheem Jimoh-Agboola of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was lifted. The suspension of Agboola was lifted following an apology letter written to the House by the suspended lawmaker and read by the Speaker during the plenary. The speaker directed that Agboola be ushered into the hallowed Chamber to resume in the legislative business. NAN recalls that the lawmaker was suspended by the House in January 2022, after he was disallowed to attend the presentation of the 2022 Appropriation Bill by Gov. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq. Agboola, while speaking with NAN on the lifting of his suspension, confirmed that he wrote an apology letter to the Speaker to allow peace reign in his constituency in particular and the state at large. “I am one voice out of the majority and for peace and harmony of the state to continue to prevail and desired development to my constituency, l have to make amend with them,” the lawmaker said. “The people of my constituency should beef up as we prepare for another elections by acquiring their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to vote credible leaders,” Agboola added. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Muhammad Suleiman Tola