By Olasunkanmi Onifade International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), FCT chapter on Friday called on prospective voters to eschew all forms of electoral violence and being used as touts during and after the elections. The Programme Officer of FIDA, Esther Ikenye, made the call at the community sensitisation for Kori and Kofai communities in Bwari Area Council of the FCT supported by Action Aid under the We-You Pro Project. She also called on all Nigerians to make use of the extended continuous voters registration opportunity to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) . “The purpose of the sensitisation is to educate them on continue voter’s registration exercise and key provisions under the Electoral Act. “And, also to promote the inclusion of women, youths and PWD in key electoral and governance processes across the FCT ahead of the 2023 general elections,” Ikenye said. She said that the simplified version of the Electoral Act was given to members of the communities for them to enhance their knowledge on voters’ education and their rights. Ikenye, however, advised women, youth and PWD to support their counterparts to change current narratives. The Programme officer of FIDA, Chioma Okoye-Chukwuma, said FIDA provided legal support to female political candidates who wish to challenge election results where there were clear cases of irregularities that denied them the mandate. She said FIDA also served to increase the participation and representation of women in decision making and governance. Okoye-Chukwuma said members of the communities should ensure they get their PVC and support women, youths and PWDs who want to take leadership positions. The Secretary of the District Head of Dutse Alhaji, Mr Hamzat Zakari, said the programme was educative and interactive as it sensitises the  people on the civic rights and continuous voters  education. “We were told to ensure our PVCs were in good condition, we were told the procedures to follow if any ones PVC was damaged in order to vote for candidate of their choice. “This is the right time to change the negative in the society by our votes, “he said. (NAN) Edited by Isaac Aregbesola