By Sumaila Ogbaje Following the recent heightened insecurity across the country, the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) has urged the Nigerian Army to deploy additional personal to NYSC Orientation Camps in the country. The Chairman, NYSC National Governing Board, Amb. Fatima Abubakar, made the call when the board paid a courtesy call on the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya on Wednesday in Abuja. Abubakar said the call became necessary because of the prevailing security situation in the country as well as many areas that required the attention of the Nigerian army. “However, we have come to you for more support, bearing in mind that the NYSC is the baby of the Nigerian army. “As you are aware, the NYSC has orientation camps which houses a minimum of 1,500 Corps members in all the states of the federation, and given the incidences of insecurity in the country, we are concerned about the safety of the young men and women under our care. “We therefore, plead for additional personnel in all our orientation camps across the country. We will really appreciate your kind assistance in this regard sir,” she said. Abubakar commended the Nigerian army for its continuous support for the scheme since it was established, saying that army has been one of the greatest supporters of the scheme. According to her, the NYSC has grown to become the most outstanding organisation that continues to foster national unity in our country. Responding, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Yahaya commended NYSC for upholding the mandate for which the scheme was established. He said the Nigerian army had a great stake in the NYSC and would continue to provide the necessary support for the scheme to succeed in carrying out its constitutional duties. The COAS assured the board of his readiness to provide additional security for NYSC, adding that the army had always taken the security of NYSC members serious. “We will continue to upgrade our activities and operations around the country and also around the theaters and other areas of concern. “NYSC is an area that is also of concern to us and we will continue to support and provide the necessary security to all of them across the nation. “So we will continue to support and provide that security. That, I can assure you,” he said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)