By Sumaila Ogbaje Christian Clerics under the aegis of United Pastors Initiative for Good Governance (UPIGG) has called on Nigerians to support the government and Armed Forces of Nigeria in the efforts to tackle insecurity. The National President of the group, Rev. James Muya, made the appeal during a courtesy visit to the Minister of Defence, retired Maj.-Gen. Bashir Magashi, on Tuesday in Abuja. Muya commended President Muhamamadu Buhari and the military in their efforts so far in the fight against terrorism, banditry and other criminalities in the country. He, however, urged the government to increase its effort in the fight against insecurity and towards ensuring a peaceful general elections in 2023. The cleric also lauded the service chiefs for the renewed synergy towards addressing the myriad of security challenges confronting the nation, adding that such collaboration had yielded positive results. He called on the Federal Government to ensure the protection of all citizens in all parts of the country. “Finally, we enjoin all well-meaning Nigerians to give maximum support to the present government in its relentless efforts at tackling insecurity in the country. “In this light we plead for the assistance of your kind office to help in securing our members as we carry out a nationwide campaign promoting our mandate, especially in areas where insecurity is paramount,” he said. Responding, the Minister of Defence represented by the Director Planning, Research and Statistics, Mr Benson Odama, called on religious leaders to pray for Nigeria without taking sides. The minister said the nation’s challenges were surmountable, saying the challenges were often times underestimated. He stated that the government would continue to do its best while urging the clerics to continue to support and pray for the military, especially the young men and women who put their lives in harm’s way for citizens to have peace. According to him, they need the support of all Nigerians and need them to appreciate the efforts of the armed forces “We need peace in this country, because without peace, no aspect of our economy will progress. “Preach peace in your churches, neighborhood, and in your families because that is the only way to go. “We are close to elections, we pray for peace, we pray for good leaders that will take us from where we are to where we want to be. “That will happen if men of God like you will dispassionately pray without taking sides, because you are expected to be apolitical, neutral and impartial, and that is the only way we can move forward as a nation,” he said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)