By Sumaila Ogbaje A political and socio-economic advocacy group, Fusion774 has urged Nigerians to vote into power come 2023, candidate with impeccable track record in human capital, economic development and security. The National Coordinator of the group, Mr Sadiq Jikta, made the call while addressing newsmen on the state of the nation on Friday, in Abuja. Jikta said the news conference was convened to express the concerns on the economic and security situation in the country, especially at a time the nation is working toward electing new leaders. He said that both the citizens and political leaders had failed to leave up to their responsibilities, adding that citizens must act fast to make things right towards achieving the country of our dream. According to him, the upcoming 2023 general election is going to be an opportunity for us to elect leaders that have the capacity to deliver in terms of addressing the economic and security situation of the country. “When we are voting for leaders in the next election let’s look at those with the trait of building people, those that has the track record in investing in people. “This is the future we are looking at; we have to get it right this time and we must come out and vote in numbers. “We have to get our Permanent Voter Card (PVC) which is our tool for working out good governance. “Our participation to make things right is going to be the choice decision we are going to make, while electing the right leadership. “We the Nigerian citizens deserve quality governance and we are responsible for it,” he said. Jikta said that Nigeria currently had poor human development index, saying that human resource development plays vital role in the prosperity of every nation. He said that the nation would achieve a quantum leap, if it invest in human resources and address unemployment among the youth, adding that unemployment remained one of the pressing problems in Nigeria. The coordinator however, challenged the political parties to convince Nigerians with their roadmap, manifestoes and issue based discussions and not trivialities. “The group will use this opportunity to urge the PDP as a party to base its campaign on issues that affect the life of Nigerians, not attack on persons, like the recent take on the Nigeria’s Ambassador to Benin Republic Amb. Tukur Buratai on issues that has been duly addressed by ICPC. “We at Fusion774 are using this opportunity to state our unalloyed position on supporting credible candidates with track record of good team selection, completed project, people oriented programmes, human capital building and enduring legacy,” he added. Jikta condemned the recent killing of military officers in Niger State as well as other happenings in Zamfara, Katsina, Plateau, South East and other parts of Nigeria. He said the recent attack on Kuje Correctional Centre by terrorists leading to the release of suspected dangerous elements into the society had further heightening insecurity precipitation in the country. He urged the government to live up to its responsibility and double effort to stem the tide. The coordinator also urged citizens to play active role in addressing insecurity by providing useful information to the security agencies, while calling for more support for community policing or vigilante groups. He said the group had continued to mobilise citizens from bottom top at local levels and sensitive them on the need for right leadership in the country. The National Mobilisarion Secretary of Fusion774, Mr Mahmud Abubakar, called for character reformation and value reorientation on the part of the citizens to be able to choose right leaders. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)