Dabiri-Erewa   By Maureen Okon The Nigerians In Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), has said that citizens living abroad have been adjudged to be the most intelligent and the most educated in the U.S. and the UK Mrs Abike Dabiri, the Chairman/CEO of NiDCOM said this on Wednesday in Abuja, at a news conference to announce the 2022 Diaspora Day Celebration. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the celebration is scheduled to hold on July 25. The theme of the celebration is: “Diaspora Engagement in Global Challenging Times for National Development’’. She said that development experts and diaspora enthusiasts across the world had posited that no nation in the world could grow without the contributions of its diasporas. According to her, diasporas have always been a blessing to their country. To that end, she said, Nigerian “diasporas have contributed immensely to the country’s GDP.” The NiDCOM chairman said it was in recognition of that that the federal government dedicated a special day for the celebration of Nigerian diasporas. “It is a fact that Nigerian diasporas have the global exposure, resources, competences, and skills as well as the passion and linkages to be a catalysts for national development. “It is a fact that in the United States alone, the Nigerian diaspora community has been adjudged the most intelligent and most educated. “In the UK the smartest families are the Nigerians. Former U.S. President Barack Obama once remarked that, if you removed the Nigerian physicians, the U.S. health system would collapse. “There is more than 5,000 Nigerian physicians in the U.S. ` `That’s why we need to engage them and celebrate them because they are our frontline ambassadors and best development partners,’’ she said. She stated that 17 million Nigerians in diaspora contribute to national development and in 2021 Nigeria topped the list of Diaspora Home Remittance countries in sub-Saharan Africa with 20 billion dollars. Speaking, Hon. Susan Waya, the Chairman Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation (NIDO) UK-South (also representing Europe), said the diasporas had become a critical component of Nigeria. Waya described the theme for this year’s celebration as apt and timely given that it seeks to tackle the myriad of challenges currently threatening world peace and development. She said that the more reason Nigerians is saddled with the obligation to individually and collectively rise to the occasion in the interest of survival and growth of our nation. Waya added that Nigerians in Diaspora have great potential in terms of resources and expertise in various fields to contribute positively to the development of their fatherland. “What is required however is the creation of the necessary platform and environment to consolidate on the gains already being made. “It is heartwarming that NiDCOM successfully midwifed the launch of our nation’s first National Diaspora Policy. “This step is an indication of government’s interest in engaging the diaspora in promoting national development. She urged the federal government to tackle insecurity. “This is because no development can thrive in an atmosphere of chaos and threat to the sanctity of lives and property of citizens,” she said. (NAN) ======== (Edited by Emmanuel Yashim)