By Maureen Okon President Muhammadu Buhari says the Federal Government holds Nigerians in the Diaspora in high esteem due to their immense contributions to national development. Buhari, who was represented by the Chief of Staff (CoS), Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, made this known on Monday at the National Diaspora Day 2022 celebration in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the National Diaspora Day is organised by the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), with theme:“ Diaspora Engagement in a Globally Challenging Time’’. The day is  celebrated on July 25, annually. Buhari said that the celebration was an opportunity to address over 17 million Nigerians in the Diaspora on the great occasion set aside to celebrate Nigeria’s best in the world. “This celebration is in recognition of your contributions to national development and networking them to ministries, departments, agencies of government, and states diaspora focal point officers and civil society organisations in Nigeria. “Let me reiterate that our government has held and will continue to hold our citizens in the Diaspora in the highest esteem and this is evidenced the following. “The passage of the Nigerians in the Diaspora Commission Establishment Act in 2017, the establishment and kick-off of the commission in 2019, the approval and abduction of the national Diaspora policy 2021. “The presentation of the compendium of the ‘+ 600 Diaspora Icons at 60’, which remains a historic record of the worth of our compatriot globally. `This auspicious celebration of our national Diaspora Day in 2022 was birthed in the national Diaspora Policy 2021, which prescribed July 25, as a day to celebrate Nigerians in the Diaspora. Buhari said this year’s theme, Diaspora Engagement in a Globally Challenging Time for national development “is apt, considering our experiences with COVID-19 pandemic”. “And the ongoing Russian/Ukraine war and the general insecurity, which we are experiencing not only in Nigeria but across the globe.” Amb. Zubairu Dada, the Minister of State, Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that Diaspora Day celebration was timely, even as the world stepped out from the painful devastation of the COVID-19 Pandemic. “I am most impress that you all took time out to participate in this event in spite of the distances most of you have to cover and the differences in the time zones. “This simply testifies to your resilence as Nigerians and your commitment to national unity and its development. I cannot forget to thank NiDCOM , the Directorate of Cooperation in Africa , Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation world-wide. Others are Zumuta Association USA Inc. Central Association of Nigerians in the United Kingdom amongst others, that had contributed one way or the other to the successful organisation and realisation of this event. Earlier, Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, NiDCOM Chairman/CEO, said that the celebration was important because the commission celebrated three years in May, giving credence to the constructive engagement and participation of those in the Diaspora. She commended the cooperation of the Nigerians in Diaspora, “which is the essence of its establishment”. “The Nigerians in the Diaspora are worthy of being celebrated because they are achievers and good ambassadors, who are putting their best in all they do. “In spite of the challenging times, the Nigerians in Diaspora are participating in various investments that are leading to development in Nigeria. “The realisation of these success stories of the Diaspora is adduced to the existing platform of NiDCOM, which has led to some African countries visiting Nigeria to learn how to associate and manage their Diaspora globally. “Bearing in mind the huge potential of the Diaspora and the impact of their remittances to the economy of their country,’’ Dabiri-Erewa said. Mrs Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, the Chairman, House Committee on Diaspora Affairs, applauded the commission for organising the event in spite of challenging times and the administration of Buhari for supporting the mandate. “Tacking these challenges will require a multi-faceted approach that will involve all well-meaning Nigerians both home and abroad. “A critical component of this approach is our Diaspora, our people who are known to possess the resources, skills and the funds that will contribute towards reviving our falling economy and restoring security in our land,’’ she said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Grace Yussuf