By Salisu Sani-Idris The Risk Managers Society of Nigeria (RIMSON) has reiterated call for the creation of the Office of the Chief Risk Officer of the federation to coordinate all risks management in the country. The President of the society, Mr Gus Wiggle made the call at a two-day 2022 National Risk Management Conference on Wednesday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme of the conference is: “Repositioning for Economic Recovery, Growth and Resilience”. Wiggle explained that the creation of the office would ensure that the country is proactively positioned in its planning, budgeting and all short-term and long-term policies formulation and implementation to harness the limitless opportunities associated with emerging challenges. He said that the creation of the office would ensure that Nigeria proactively mitigate all human, climatic and other emerging threats to national survival. He said the input of the society to national discourse was needed more, especially as the nation was about to experience another change in government and its associated socio- economic impacts. “Globally, the relevance of proactive deployment of risk management is across every sector and governance can no longer be downplayed. “The ongoing Russian-Ukraine crisis coming after the massive impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic had greatly amplified the need for both corporate and national integration and implementation of risk management. “Therefore, this year’s risk management conference is a platform for formulating strategic roadmap for ensuring the nation’s economy recovers fully from the losses associated with both local and global challenges. “I strongly believe the conference will provide critical takeaways on national concerns such as food security, peaceful change of government, business and national resilience, safety, and security of our transport system.” Wiggle assured that the society would continue to reinforce its pioneering role in its advocacy agenda and contributions towards risk management awareness and education. “And we will ensure the integration and implementation of risk management into every sector of our national life with the support of all stakeholders for the greater good of our dear nation.” He applauded the efforts of the current administration in the efforts towards standardising the practice of risk management in the country. “This gladdens our heart as a pointer to the realisation of the society’s efforts for nearly four decades in promoting risk management awareness in the nation.” Alhaji Abbas Idriss, the First Deputy Vice President of the society and Chairman Planning Committee of the conference, said the conference focused on the problems associated with the Nigerian economy. Idriss, who is the Director-General, Federal Capital Territory Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), emphasised the need for government to factor in risk management analysis in whatever it was doing. “We carefully selected the theme of the conference to address the issues that are affecting the economy. “We have touched about the transportation sector whereby how do we factor in risk management to be able to rescue any kind of risk associated with the transportation sector. “We have also talked about the election the 2023 forthcoming general elections. How do we really look at the risk associated with the election?” Mr Usohu Isegen, the Group General Manager, Group Risk Management and Insurance Division, Nigeria National Petroleum Company Ltd. said the conference would provide policymakers and business leaders with data and information. According to him, data and information will help in the development of structural policies that will boost growth, engender resilience and inclusiveness. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Grace Yussuf