By Angela Atabo A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), FlexiSAF Foundation on Tuesday, said it would assist in digitising schools administration for effective management through the use of a software. The Product Marketing Manager, Rahmah Obadaki said this in a statement in Abuja. Obadaki said that FlexiSaf inaugurated a software SAFSIMS, a school information management tool to help the education sector digitise schools administration for free. “FlexiSaf forges ahead in its bid to reinvent learning and inspire people to make lifelong positive impact with the introduction of its brand new product; SAFSIMS. “SAFSIMS is the software educators need to manage their schools with 100 per cent efficiency. “The customer-focused SAFSIMS is unlike any other school management software in the market.’’ According to Obadaki, SAFSIMS is the result of extensive research and revisions to efficiently serve teachers, parents, administrators, educators, school owners, and students by meeting their needs as noted over time. She said that the school administration system featured an improved and simplified onboarding process owing to its highly user-friendly interface, which also allowed for customisation. Obadaki said that school fees payment collection and monitoring, report collection, analysis, and parent/student access were just a few of the numerous features of SAFSIMS. The product manager said that this would guarantee that teachers could reduce their workload by tracking and analysing data from learning objectives. Obadaki said that administrators could keep track of the activities of the entire staff, students, and school while overseeing performance reports to help them make informed decisions. “Parents can also get real-time updates on how their children are doing in school. “Most importantly, all of the above may be done at any time, from any location, using any internet-enabled device.’’ Obadaki urged parents and schools to spend less time doing administrative work and more time on the task of molding the future generation via education by moving to SAFSIMS .(NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ============= Edited by Abiemwense Moru/Ese E. Eniola Williams