By Folasade Akpan The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has sworn in 1,853 corps members for the 2022 Batch ‘B’ Stream II service year in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The corps members who are to participate in the three weeks orientation course were sworn in by the FCT Chief Judge, Justice Husseini Baba-Yusuf on Tuesday. Baba-Yusuf was represented by Justice Kayode Agunloye. In a message to the corps members, the Director-General of NYSC, Brig.-Gen. Muhammad Fadah, said that the course was designed to equip them for the tasks of the service year. Fadah, represented by the FCT Coordinator, Alhaji Suleiman Abdul, said that the highlights of the course were leadership coaching, paramilitary drills, physical trainings and sensitisation on topical national issues, amongst others. He urged them to avail themselves of the unique opportunity by participating actively in all the camp activities as they would go a long way in enabling them to realise their potential. “Your deployment away from your states of origin and your being in the camp from diverse ethnic, religious and socio-economic backgrounds are part of our deliberate policies aimed at promoting national unity and integration. “These will enable you have broader understanding of the country and promote the culture of working together in an atmosphere of friendship, peace, harmony and shared vision of a great and prosperous Nigeria.” Fadah also urged them to sustain the high level of discipline and enthusiasm they have demonstrated so far. He added that they should familiarise themselves with the provisions of the NYSC Act and the NYSC Bye-Laws. “You must adhere to all camp rules and be obedient to the course officials. “Let me also warn you that vices such as cultism and drug abuse are strictly prohibited on camp. “Furthermore, you should avoid using the social media to spread fake news and other negative purposes,’’ he said. Mr Micheal Obani, one of the corps members said that the few days spent in the camp had already opened his eyes to a whole new experience. “To be sincere the few days we have spent here has been so meaningful. “Meeting new people is something of value because we have been able to share ideas and all, so it is beyond just the cultural integration.” (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Abiemwense Moru/Solomon Asowata