By Folasade Akpan The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has honoured seven youth corps members posted to FCT in 2021 Batch ‘B’ Stream One service for outstanding performance. The Coordinator of the scheme in the territory, Alhaji Suleiman Abdul, said this on Thursday in Abuja at the Passing Out Parade (POP) ceremony for the batch. He said “I am happy to inform you that a total of 4,472 youth corps members are exiting the service today. “Out of this number, two are to receive FCT State Honours Award and five will get letters of commendation for outstanding performance during the service year. “A total of 74 members who failed to conform to the dictates of the NYSC have been sanctioned in line with the NYSC by-laws.” Abdul, however, said that the sanction was an extension of service for those affected, pointing out that “the POP signals another page in the story of the success of the NYSC in grooming virile, intelligent and diligent young graduates in the society as powerful development influencers.” He added that the strategies of the scheme had proven to be highly effective, considering the contributions of the youth corps members in Agriculture, Economy, Health, Rural Infrastructure, among other sectors. He said “while these activities have drawn positive commendations to the scheme, the NYSC is pressing forward in the humanitarian and social responsibility front. “This is by harnessing the human resource, expertise and malleability of members to move our great country forward. “Furthermore, with the passage of the NYSC Trust Fund by the Senate, we are confident of better days for the scheme.” The FCT Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Aliyu, said that the FCT would remain grateful to the NYSC for the various contributions the scheme had brought to education, health, agriculture, economic and infrastructure sectors within of the territory. Represented by the Mandate Secretary, Social Development Secretariat,FCTA Hajiya Hadiza Kabir, where she urged the management of the scheme to continue the laudable contributions with successive batches of members. Aliyu, however, charged the youth corps members to take the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) training they had during the service year seriously. She added that “you are all aware that the era of white collar jobs is fast fading out and the option left for every serious-minded person is acquisition of skills and entrepreneurship development. “Do the nation and indeed yourself a favour by continuously improving on the skills you have acquired, set up a business and aspire to become employers of labour in the future,” she said. One of the award recipient, Ms Ruth Dasukuk, with state code number FC/21B/0955, donated 12 chairs to the Command Day Secondary School in Lungi Barracks, FCT, and sensitised women and girls on breast, cervical cancer and rape. Dasukuk said she was moved to contribute her quota to the society through the sensitisation because she lost her mother and sister to breast cancer. She said she would move on from the NYSC and face her hairdressing business. Another recipient, Mr Godwin Alomaja, with state code number FC/21B/1120, donated an Automatic Transfer Switch, incorporated with remote/smart control to the NYSC FCT Secretariat for effective management of the power plant in the secretariat. He said he was so elated to have bagged the state award and appreciated the NYSC for giving him the opportunity and announcing him to the world. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) Edited by Chidinma Agu/Hadiza Mohammed-Aliyu