By Okon Okon The National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), has approved that two Federal Training Centres (FTCs) in Lagos and Kaduna should award National Diploma (ND) in some courses. Mr Mohammed Ahmed, Deputy Director Communications, office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HOCSF), made this known in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday. Ahmed explained that the initiative was in line with the six pillars and strategic focus of the Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan (FCSSIP25) from 2021 to 2025. He said FCSSIP25 initiated by the office of the HOCSF, as approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC), focused on capability building and talent management and the vision to build a world-class service to accelerate national development. “The office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation has got accreditation for two of its Federal Training Centres to run National Diploma (ND) programmes,’’ he said. According to him, the National Board for Technical Education which accredited the training centres granted the approval for the underlisted programmes. Ahmed said the Federal Training Centre, Lagos is to offer ND in Public Administration; ND in Office Technology and Management; ND in Computer Science; and ND in Business Administration and Management. Furthermore, the Federal Training Centre, Kaduna, would also offer ND in Public Administration; ND in Computer Science; and ND in Business Administration and Management. “The accredited National Diploma courses in Public Administration as well as Office Technology and Management are also awaiting further accreditation for Higher National Diploma status. “All programmes being offered by the remaining four FTCs situated in Calabar, Enugu, Maiduguri and Ilorin are still on interim accreditation status,” he said. Ahmed said that in the light of the development, public servants and the general public were enjoined to take the advantage of the newly accredited courses. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that FTCs were established to address the training needs of the junior and middle level manpower of the civil service, mainly in secretarial, practical legislative reporting and clerical duties. The training centres cut across the six geo-political zones of the country. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ======= Edited by Adeleye Ajayi