Lizzie Okoji The Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in Nigeria has commended the Federal Government for constantly promoting unity and the rich cultural heritage of the country amidst diversity. Mr Li Xuda, Cultural Counselor, Chinese Embassy made this known on Thursday, in Abuja at the commemoration of the  2022 World Day for cultural diversity, dialogue and Development. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 2022 commemoration was with the theme “Culture, National Unity and Security: Promoting National Unity and Security through Culture”. Li said that culture was the foundation of national development and the driving force of social progress, hence a critical tool that must be used by countries to promote peace and prosperity. He commended the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture for the numerous programmes it had organised to foster unity in the country amidst the diversities. “As to the importance of culture, I would like to say that culture is the foundation of national development and the driving force of social progress. “Both China and Nigeria are cultural giants with a long history. Culture plays an important role in the historical process of their national independence and revitalisation,” he said. According to him, the concept of harmony is most emphasised by Chinese in its culture. At the level of man and nature, we advocate harmony in coexistence; at the level of family and society, we advocate harmony in integration. “At the level of nation and civilisation, we advocate harmony in diversity; at the level of state and governance, we advocate harmony development. “In short, our ultimate goal is to create a harmonious world with peaceful development of mankind,” Li said. Li said that the long-standing China-Nigerian friendship between Nigeria and China can be further strengthened through effective cultural exchange. Dr Ifeoma Anyanwutaku, Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Information, said that the theme of this year’s commemoration creates a veritable platform for dialogue and national development. Anyanwutaku said that the strength of Nigeria lay in its diversity, urging citizens to unite and surmount every form of divides. “We are gathered here today not only to celebrate culture but also reflect on our national life and explore ways of promoting national security through culture as aptly captured in this year’s theme. “As patriotic Nigerians, the security of our country is our collective responsibility. “While the Federal Government continues to channel resources towards ridding our nation of the multifaceted challenges faced by the security infrastructure of the nation. “We must complement efforts of government in addressing the increasing security issues created by enemies of nationhood by deploying cultural elements in fighting this menace. “Our diversity is our strength, and Nigerians are free to live in any part of the Country other than their ancestral home. “Our unique and diverse cultural heritage is a unifier and irrespective of differences in expression, we share commonality aspects of our way of life. This is why we must continue to place in certain more emphasis on the tide that binds us a peonies,” Anywanwutaku said. NAN reports that the audience were entertained with different cultural displays from various ethnic groups and culture. The event set aside by UNESCO to celebrate and promote rich culture across the globe. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ===== edited by Sadiya Hamza