By Clara Egbogota   No fewer than 550 residents of Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta have benefited from the Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) programme of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the three-day programme, organised by the NYSC with the theme: “Health is Wealth for Advancement”, was held at Jesse Town Hall. Mr Olusegun Alao, NYSC Coordinator in Delta, said the programme was a platform for promotion of the wellbeing of indigenes at the grassroots by granting them easy access to free and quality healthcare. Alao, represented by Augustine Iwu, an Assistant Director, who read Maj.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, the Director-General of NYSC’s speech, said the scheme had donated over 300 wheelchairs to beneficiaries. “I am pleased to report that since inception, over two million persons have benefited from this rural health initiative, with support from partners worldwide. “We have recorded achievements in the area of national unity and integration, health care delivery, rural infrastructure, mass literacy, education, sports and other social services,” he said. Dr Ehima Esan, the medical team leader, urged beneficiaries to always take care of their health, saying that “health is wealth”. “It is good for us to always check our health regularly; we should always seek medical care when we are sick; we should adhere to instructions on prescription drugs,” he said. Mrs Grace Babuba, NYSC Zonal Inspector Sapele Zone, described the programme as a laudable initiative and urged the beneficiaries to make the best use of the free medical mission for their good. “I urge residents to desist from self-medication, they should keep their environments clean and always visit hospitals when they notice any abnormality,” she said. Mr Samuel Otohareri, representing the Uduhie 1, Ovie of Idjerhe kingdom, King (Duke), Monday Wiskey, said that the community was delighted with the activities of the NYSC in the area, adding that the HIRD was an exceptional initiative. He called on the people to come out en-masse to receive medical consultation, treatment and referral for whatever ailment they were suffering from. He also appealed to NYSC staff and the corps medical team carrying out the outreach, not to be in haste but ensure every indigent of the community was attended to.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng)   Edited by Ehigimetor Igbaugba