By Muhyideen Jimoh Mo’ Heat, Kano Pillars and Hot Coal Ballers Basketball Clubs have all qualified for the ‘Elite Eight’ Round of the ongoing Mark ‘D’ Ball Men’s basketball championship in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that all three teams won their two consecutive group games to maintain their winning run in the championship, with a game to spare. Mo’ Heat currently top Group A with four points and a goal difference of +80, having out dunked Bayelsa Waves 100-30 in their first group A game before defeating Police Baton 87-77 in their second game. They are closely followed by Delta Force which also have four points with a goal difference of +35 having beaten Police Baton 53-48 in their first group A game and thrashed Bayelsa Waves 76-45 in their second game. Kano Pillars currently lead the pack in Group B with four points and a goal difference of +38. They defeated Plateau Peaks 53-49 in their first game, before dishing out an 83-50 whitewash to the current NUGA games champions, Nile University Spartans in their second game. They are closely followed by Gombe Bulls with four points and a goal difference of +42 and have also booked a berth in the last eight. The Bulls thrashed Nile University 80-51 in their first group game and defeated Plateau Peaks 82-69 in their second game. Hot Coal Ballers are the current pace setters in Group C with four points and a +74 goal difference, closely followed by Nigeria Customs with same number of points but +30 goal difference. Hot Coal Ballers thrashed Apa Flames 80 – 50 in their first game, before thumping Novena Heartlanders 100-56 in the second game. Group D is still looking dicey as all four teams namely: FCT Hardrockers, Kwara Falcons, Suleja Bulldogs and NSDC Defenders are still in with a chance of qualifying for the last eight, having played two games and recorded one win each with one defeat. Only the top two teams from each group will qualify for the “elite eight’ of the championship. The final round of matches will be played on Tuesday at the Indoor Sports Hall of the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja. NAN reports that on Monday, Gombe Bulls beat Plateau Peaks 82-69, Apa Flames 64- 49 Novena Heartlanders, Suleja Bulldogs 81- 65 NSCDC Defenders. Other results are Delta Force 76-45 Bayelsa Waves, Mo’ Heat 87-77 Police Baton and Kwara Falcons 64- 55 FCT Hard Rockers. (NAN)(www nannews.ng) ========= Edited by Ese E. Eniola Williams