By Georgina Adegbie Anambra Queens Volleyball Club have recorded their first victory in three games at the ongoing National Division One Volleyball League The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the game played at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium saw Anambra Queens beating Bayonet Spikers of Kaduna 25-20 in the first set. They then won 25-22 in the second set and the final beat, thus going on to two points difference in the third at 25-23. Speaking after the match, Uche Okafor who is the head coach of Anambra Queens said they played to instructions and would continue to have favourable results. “This is our first appearance in the Division One League. This is the first time they are playing indoor games. “It’s the will of God, I am happy. It’s not that we are fully prepared but we are determined. “We are happy for this victory because we lost our previous matches.” Speaking on the team’s players, he said: “Some of them are still in secondary schools and some are in higher institutions. ”I decided to select them to come and expose them for this type of tournament. “This is the first time of playing indoor games and some have been traveling to the FCT before. “I just decided to choose the set of players that are still young and full of discipline and ready to play according to the instructions given to them. “Now we have learnt from our mistakes and we will win all our subsequent matches,” he said. NAN reports that Anambra Queens lost 0-3 to Chief of Naval Staff (CNS) Spikers in their first match, and then lost 1-3 to Life Camp Volleyball Club of Abuja. Bayonet Spikers also lost their two previous games, losing 0-3 to CNS Spikers in their first match, and 0-3 to Life Camp Volleyball Club of Abuja. NAN reports that 12 teams are participating in the first phase of the championship. The male teams are Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), UCEM Spikers, Wikki Spikers of Bauchi, Spartan Spikers of Yola, ABM of Katsina and Caliphate Spikers of Sokoto The female teams on the other hand are: CNS Spikers, Bayonet Spikers of Kaduna, Life Camp VC of Abuja, Yelwa Spikers of Bauchi, Olalomi Royal Spikers of Ilorin and Anambra Queens. NAN reports that the 2022 National Division One Volleyball League which started on Friday is expected to end on Sunday.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ========== Edited by Olawale Alabi