By Adedeji Egbebi The Obalodo-designate of Ilodo-Oye-Ekiti, Mr Bamitale Oguntoyinbo has stressed the need for Ekiti indigenes to always make proper findings of their source. Oguntoyinbo gave the advice while hosting the Obaloran of Ilode, Ile-Ife in Osun State, Oba Sakariyau Olawusi, and his Council of Chiefs at the Obalodo’s palace, which was undergoing construction in Ilodo, Oye-Ekiti. He noted that no community could exist without a source as it is the only means by which the community could be developed. Obalodo-designate explained that Ilodo-Oye-Ekiti people came from Ile-Ife and settled in Oye-Ekiti which made the community have a representative in nine quarters that made up Oye-Ekiti. “Every Ekiti indigenes must be able to trace their source in the Yoruba lineage to be able to have a good legacy when they start having children. “I want to correct a wrong impression about what some people have been saying about the origin of Ilodo and us, we are not outcasts, we are firmly rooted in the history of Oye-Ekiti. “According to history, Oloye, Obalodo, and Oloyemoyin left Ile-Ife the same day, the main assignment of Obalodo was to make the nine arms of Oye remember the harmattan that symbolises the Oloyemoyin annually. “Oloye has wide powers on all Oye nine arms in traditional and political administration, while Obalodo also has power all over Oye nine arms. “I want us to settle very well before we invite the Oloye of Oye-Ekiti, Oba Oluwole Ademolaju, one of Nigeria’s foremost traditional rulers, who has achieved a lot in the development of the community,” he said. Oguntoyinbo thanked Obaloran of Ilode-Ile-Ife, his Council of Chiefs for their visit, and pledged to sustain the relationship between them. Reacting, the Obaloran of Ilode–Ile-Ife, in Ile-Ife, Oba Olawusi, said that Ilodo has come to stay, urging people who are spreading news of conflict and unfounded history to give peace a chance in the community. Oba Olawusi, who was represented by High Chief Sobaloju Adifala, the Baale of Ilode-Ile-Ife, charged the Obalodo-designate to use his position to promote peace and love in the community. “Ilode-Ile-Ife is fully in support of Obalodo-designate, Mr Bamitale Oguntoyinbo, to rule the community as their King. “I want to urge Ilodo people to embrace peace, and love that will bring development to the community, do not fight anybody because whoever God has destined to become a King will surely wear the crown,” he said. Oba Olawusi commended Obalodo-designate for the ongoing construction of the palace and his determination to revive his community’s culture and traditions despite all distractions. “Bamitale, do not think that some chiefs and Obas are angry with you, it is some people who desire to have a beautiful palace such as this one, that is envying your position,” he added. The traditional ruler through his representative presided over the royal blessings at the tomb of the last occupant of the Obalodo stool, Late Joseph Oguntoyinbo, who joined his ancestors 24 years ago after reigning for 56 years on the throne. He assured them not to exercise any fear, adding that the relationship between Obalodo of Ilodo-designate, Oguntoyinbo, and Oloye of Oye-Ekiti, Oba Ademolaju remained intact. One of the Obalodo of Ilodo descendants, Mrs Ibiduni Adediran, who spoke on behalf of the Ilodo people, appreciated the Obaloran of Ilode-Ile-Ife, Oba Olawusi, and his council of chiefs for their visit to the community. She prayed for Obalodo-designate that God would grant him wisdom and long life to rule the community. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ============ Edited by Abiodun Esan/Isaac Aregbesola