Prof. Titilayo Akinlabi, Director PAULESI, flanked by students from different African countries   By Ibukun Emiola A don, Prof. Titilayo Akinlabi, has   tasked African students to come up with solutions to end malnutrition and other challenges on the continent as they observe the 2022 Africa Day. Prof. Titilayo Akinlabi, the Director, Pan African University Life and Earth Sciences Institute (PAULESI), University of Ibadan, gave the charge on Wednesday in Ibadan at the commemoration of the 2022 Africa Day. Akinlabi said that the event was to reflect on the progress that Africa had made, while also coming together to find solutions to the challenges of  the continent. “Therefore, this year’s celebration of Africa Day provides us with another opportunity to assess how far our continent has progressed and deliberate on ideas to make Africa great as this is part of our responsibility as a patriotic citizen,” she said The director said that the African Union had made substantial efforts in prioritizing and investing in nutrition both at the continental and national levels through a multi-sectoral and interdisciplinary approach and profoundly during this AU Year on Nutrition and beyond. “One of these recent efforts is the newly signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between The African Union (AU) and Nutrition International towards a shared vision to end hunger, poverty and malnutrition in Africa. “Malnutrition is an urgent problem imposing a serious threat on the hopes and dreams of millions of people in Africa. “Nutrition must be prioritised to enable Africa to combat and curb the growing peril of the COVID-19 pandemic, conflict, climate, and build a strong and resilient future for Africa. “This is where you all come in; you all are the hope of Africa and it is expected of you to contribute your quota to the development of the continent, which includes efforts geared towards food security. “This is in line with the mission of PAU which is geared towards ushering in a new generation of leaders, well trained to tackle and take the best advantage of African human and material resources, imbued with the common vision of a peaceful, prosperous and integrated Africa. “As an institute, we continue to contribute our quota to the Africa We Want by conducting cutting edge research in environment and plant breeding which speaks to the theme of this Year’s Africa Day,” Akinlabi said. Also, Albert  Tweneboah of Ghana and Mampupi Mohoase of Lesotho, two postgraduate students, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) said the event showcased the beauty of Africa expressed in diversity which if well harnessed would engendered progress of the continent. “The event taught me that as Africans we are good people and if we are united we will take Africa to a higher place,”  Mohoase said. NAN  reports that the event  featured various dances from North,  East, Central, South and West African regions, fashion show,  local meal exhibition,  online challenge with participants solving  malnutrition  and smoothie making. NAN also reports that Mr Michael Nelson from West Africa emerged as Mr PAULESI while Charity Moses of Southern Africa emerged as Miss PAULESI Southern Africa. (NAN) ======= Edited by bayo Sekoni