By Dorcas Jonah The National Directorate of Employment (NDE) on Wednesday promised to partner the National Council of Women Societies (NCWS) to train 50 women in each state of the federation. The Director-General of NDE, Malam Abubakar Fikpo, made the promise when the newly elected President of NCWS, Hajiya Lami Lau, led a delegation on a visit to the directorate in Abuja. Fikpo said that the NDE was committed to training and empowering women to become financial managers and for a better Nigeria. He said that the NDE before now had always had a branch dedicated to women and women only to prioritise the directorate’s interest on women matters. According to him, when I came on board a year ago, a think we needed to do more for the women, so we are creating a scheme, Women Employment Collaboration Scheme for women only. ”This is all aimed at reaching the women at the grassroots using the Local Government Areas (LGAs), ” he said. Fikpo said that since the NCWS had its presence in all the states and local government areas, the directorate would use the council to establish its presence in the LGAs. ”Even though we have structures and offices in all the states of the federation, establishing our presence in the local government has been our major concern. ”Since the NCWS has presence in the local government areas, your organisation will become our machinery to establish our presence in the LGAs. ”For your request to train 50 women; that is not a problem because it falls under our mandate and we will be glad to do so,” he said. Lau solicited the support of the NDE for more inclusive participation of Nigerian women in training and empowerment. She urged the NDE to train 50 women in each state including the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. ”We also wish to request greater collaboration between NCWS and NDE in rural women empowerment programme of your agency, to stimulate the consciousness of rural women and ensure they are well represented,” she said. Lau congratulated the director-general on his confirmation and prayed that God would help him to do more for women and Nigeria in general. (NAN) Edited by Adeleye Ajayi