Nwambu Gabriel    By Angela Atabo Global Centre for Conscious Living Against Corruption on Thursday advised politicians aspiring for elective positions in 2023 poll to face politics rather than engaged in ‘pull down syndrome’. The Director-General of the Centre, Dr Nwambu Gabriel, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja that the call became necessary because the act was inimical to democracy growth in Nigeria. Gabriel said that it was sad that the syndrome had dominated the political space, in spite of its enormous damage to the system. He mentioned a petition addressed to the Cross River screening committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on May 14, alleging that one of the governorship aspirant was a fraudster. According to him, a petition addressed to the state screening committee of the APC, purportedly signed by one Bala Dakum, alleged that Sen. Bassey Otu was a fraudster. “It alleged that Otu, had been convicted of fraud while working with his former employer, Mercantile Bank of Nigeria. “In other words, the petitioner claimed that this alleged offence contravened Section 182 (e) of the 1999 Constitution as amended. “Sequel to the determination of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to combat corruption in Nigeria, the centre (A coalition of 13 Anti-Corruption CSOs), decided to conduct an independent verification to ascertain the facts of the allegation,’’ he said. Gabriel said consequently, the coalition found out that the name of the individual who signed the petition was non-existent. The Director-General of the Centre said that the address used by the petitioner does not exist in reality, in other words, it was a fabricated address. He said that however, that the centre investigation revealed that Otu served his former employer meritoriously before he resigned his appointment to venture into politics. Gabriel said that Otu was even bestowed with a meritorious service award by his former employer for his exemplary conduct and dedication to duty. “We also discovered that the Otu was never accused of any allegation bothering on fraud, neither was he never convicted and therefore has not contravened section 182 (e) as alleged by the ghost petitioner. “Otu is a graduate of Social Sciences from University of Calabar and he served as a two-term Member of House of Representatives for Calabar Municipal/Odukpani between May 2003 and May 2011. “Otu served as a Senator representing Southern Senatorial District of Cross River from June 2011 to June 2015 and contested election in 2003, 2007, 2011, 2015 and 2019 respectively, he said. Gabriel said that the petition was evident that this fiction existed only in the mind of the author orchestrated and designed to mutilate the integrity of Otu who has served the nation meritoriously. He said that the senator performed creditably well and made his mark in banking and public service respectively, therefore, Otu should be commended for his selfless and exemplary leadership style.(NAN) ======== Edited by Dorcas Jonah/Ali Baba-Inuwa