By Justina Auta The UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) visited the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs to assess its partnership on prevention, response to violence against children by terrorist and violent extremist groups. Information about the assessment visit is in a statement signed by the ministry’s Director, Press and Public Relations, Mr Olujimi Oyetomi on Tuesday in Abuja, after a meeting between UNODC and the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Mr Olufunso Adebiyi and others. The UNODC team was led by Ms Alexandra Martins, the Head, Global Programme to End Violence Against Children. The assessment was programmed to be done within the context of STRIVE Juvenile Project which was launched in 2021. The project is to address the situation and treatment of children exploited and recruited by terrorist and violent extremist groups. The ministry’s permanent secretary described issues associated with violence against children as a huge problem. He, therefore, stressed the need for parents, the society, government and all stakeholders to contribute toward taking care of the younger generation so they dont become problem in future. He also stressed the need to keep out-of-school children off the streets, and to empower the mothers of such children. He added that “when you do this, you are rehabilitating their mothers, who in turn will take the children out of the streets and draw the children back to themselves.” Adebiyi listed the causes of out-of-school children to include Gender-Based Violence (GBV) and Sexual and Gender-Based Violence (SGBV), adding that the ministry has a centre in Kurudu, a suburb of Abuja, for SGBV survivors. He said the ministry also provides psycho-social support for women victims of intimate partner abuse through its Situation Data Reporting Centre. The UNODC team leader stressed the need to ensure appropriate treatment of children associated with terrorist and violent extremist groups with a view to promoting their rehabilitation and reintegration into the society. She said the UN office was of the opinion that any child formerly associated with terrorist and violent extremist group and in contact with national authorities, including the justice system, has the right to be treated according to specific safeguards. She added that such a child also has the right to be treated in accordance with applicable international law and in a way that prevents further victimisation. The office had endorsed Roadmap on the Treatment of Children Associated with Terrorist and Violent Extremist Groups for comprehensive guidance, she said.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng)