By Cecilia  Ijuo The Registrar of the Teachers Registration  Council (TRCN), Prof. Josiah Ajiboye, has called on state governors to emulate the commitment of Cross River Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade, to training and retraining of teachers. Ajiboye made the call when the Director-General of Teachers Continuous Training Institute (TCTI) Biase, Cross River,  Prof. Taoheed Adedoja, paid him a courtesy visit in Abuja on Monday. The TRCN boss commended the governor’s effort at ensuring that his government contributed to the production of quality teachers that would meet the 21st century demand, focused largely on digital literacy. He expressed commitment to partnering with Cross River Government to bring Nigeria’s teachers up to speed with their counterparts in other climes. “We celebrate governors that are doing well in terms of teachers’ training. “TRCN’s motto is “Teaching for Excellence”, so, it is important to change the quality of teachers to drive quality education,” he said. Earlier, Prof. Adedoja stated that TCTI was the first public institution with Certiport Accredited Testing Centre for digital literacy and emerging skills training and certification. He said TCTI, established in 2020, stood tall as one of the major 21st century  initiatives of the Gov. Ayade’s government. He said the institute was established to proffer solution to inadequacies of human capital development, which he said had hindered Nigeria’s growth, particularly in the  education  sector. “The TCTI boasts of a state of the art  Digital Training Centre, a Demonstration  School, activated ICTI Certiport  authorised training centre and other world class facilities. “Without doubt, the Nigerian teachers require far broader range of skills and attributes than the technical  capability career practices previously in demand,” he said. The Director-General said part of the courtesy visit was to seek guidance and cooperation of the TRCN. Adedoja, decried that teachers had remained the weakest link in the education  chain, adding the establishment of the TCTI by the Cross  River Government would help support and enhance the quality of teachers. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that the high point  of the visit was the official presentation of TCTI profile and first news letter to the TRCN boss. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ======= Edited by Idris Abdulrahman