By Franca Ofili The Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria (MLSCN) on Wednesday in Abuja inducted 339 foreign graduates of Medical Laboratory Science to carryout quality medical laboratory services in the country. The Registrar, MLSCN, Dr Tosan Erhabor, said it was the first time to have such number inducted into the profession. “We are ready to ensure that the country has quality laboratory scientists to achieve its goals, quality and accountability, we will also strive to see that Nigerians get qualify medical laboratory scientist,’’ Erhabor said. He said that the foreign graduates were referred as candidates with bachelor’s degree or other recognised qualifications in medical laboratory or biomedical science obtained outside Nigeria. He said that the council at inception saw lot of gaps in the practice but as of date, it had a one year intensive training before the person can be allowed to practice as a medical laboratory scientist. Erhabor advised the inductees to be accurate and ensure that they carry out research as lot of innovation were coming up. “The issue of wrong diagnose is a priority to this council, we believe in quality standard and we ensure that labs are monitored to fish out quacks so that we have standards,” he said He said that the council was known for its integrity commitment, professionalism, excellence, efficiency with team work. According to him, the inductees play a vital role in the healthcare service of the country and so must be accurate in what they do. “The vision of the council is to be a world acclaimed regulatory agency driving the culture of quality and efficient health laboratory care to the public and ensuring high academic standards in training institutions. “We will also strengthen health laboratory systems and professional practice for quality services through strategic regulations and accreditation,’’ he said. He said that the issue of wrong diagnosis of sample was paramount to the council and has ensured that medical professionals were given license with monitoring. According to him, the council ensures that the universities that trained them have the requirements needed and accreditation issued to them. Dr Osaretin Agbonlahor, Assistant Director, Head Public Health Laboratory and Institutional Advisor said during induction lecture the council had zero tolerance on professionalism. Agbonlahor advised the inductees to practice the rule of conduct and also carry out investigation on any sample the collected. He urged them to practice secrecy because patients’ issues were not to be discussed. “You must protect the patients secrets and ensure correct interpretation of results, must be rich in knowledge as the world is going global with new innovations,” he said.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ============ Edited by Maureen Ojinaka/Isaac Aregbesola