By Sumaila Ogbaje The Director-General, Nigerian Army Resource Centre, retired Maj.-Gen. Garba Wahab, says promotion of work ethics would enhance professionalism and capacity of personnel of the armed forces and Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). Wahab said this at the graduation of participants of Work Ethics and Organisational Performance Course 3/2022 of the centre on Friday, in Abuja. He said the course was designed for junior personnel drawn from the armed forces, para-military, corporate organisations and MDAs as well as the civil society. He said that an improved work ethic among the various state actors would enhance their capacity towards addressing the security challenges confronting the nation. According to him, positive attitude towards work by those who worked in the office would also affect those on the field, especially those who are fighting, insurgency and other forms of insecurity. “If you do your job well given the culture and ethics of each organisation having in the mind, the fact that you are working for the development of the country, there will be positive impact. “Let us correct our mindset in the office, correct mindset in the things that we do, and gradually things will begin work better,” he said. Wahab commended the participants for their commitment to the course and urged them to use the knowledge acquired to add value to their respective organisations. He also used them to create enduring friendship that would lead to effective inter-agency synergy that helps them to work together for the development of the nation. The Programme Coordinator, NARC, retired Brig.-Gen. Ferdinand Eze, said the participants were taken through a number of thematic areas such as organising and managing the workplace, organisational culture and ethics, amongst others. Eze said a total of 74 participants drawn from the military, paramilitary and MDAs completed the programme. Speaking on behalf of the participants, the Course Senior, Mr Collins Chinyere, thanked the centre for helping to broaden their knowledge towards enhancing productivity in the work place. Chinyere said they were now better informed and equipped to be catalyst for change in their respective organisations. He commended the centre for the high quality of training being offered, adding that the army resource centre had the capacity to be a global centre of excellence. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)