By Muhyideen Jimoh The Nigeria International Trade Fair/Expo (NITFE) organisers have called for more investment in the non-oil sector, including sports to fast track the nation’s socio-economic development. Mr Innocent Ogu, President, African Legacy International, Co-organisers of the NITFE told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the initiative was focused on the development of the non-oil sector. He said the Expo which is in collaboration with the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) will go a long way in showcasing made in Nigeria goods. “The Nigeria International Trade Fair/Expo would be hosting the Nigeria non-oil exportable products in Nigeria and other foreign countries with the aim of achieving the theme ‘diversification as catalyst to our national development’. “This year’s edition will be coming up from June 21 to June 23 in Abuja, with a lot of foreign countries set to participate,” he said. Ogu said football being one of the country’s special non-oil product has also been chosen to highlight it’s Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) potentials. He said in this regard, a football talent hunt would be organised to showcase and expose Nigerian grassroot talents abroad. “We are going to feature football matches in all the destinations where we are exibiting the Nigerian non-oil exportable products, including: Brazil, Malta South Korea, Mexico and Turkey. “Our selected football players during the talent hunt exercise would play their counterparts of the destination clubs,” he said. Ogu said the talent hunt would hold at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja from May 16 to May 17 as a prelude to the NITFE slated for June. He called on all stakeholders to support the Federal Government’s Public-Private Partnership aimed at diversifying the economy. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the objective of the Expo includes to promote all aspects of the economy through national and international cooperation and to create conducive trade atmosphere between Nigeria and other countries for the actualization of joint venture projects. Others are to provide access to research findings, new technologies, innovation and ideas for industrial growth.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng)