By Bridget Ikyado The Regional Overseer, Apostolic Faith Church, Abuja  , Rev. Festus Oniyide, has urged parents to bring up their children in a godly way to ensure proper breeding for a better society. Oniyide made the call on Monday, at the children’s concert 2022 with theme “shout to the Lord” the concert was to commemorate the May 27 Children’ s Day. He said that the society would be better off if parents and guardians trained their children in a godly way, adding “God is always happy with parents who train their children to follow His commandments”. The cleric urged parents to live exemplary lives by shunning all negative acts, saying that a lot of children grew up with the good or bad attitudes of their parents, hence the need for the parents to live a life worthy of emulation. “Parents must continue to ensure and train their children in a godly way so that the society will be better off. They must teach their children the commandments of God and also do things according to the commandments. He urged parents to pray to God at all times for the progress of their families and children,” he said. Oniyide also advised parents against abusing the rights of the child in the name of discipline, adding that disciplining must be done in a godly way rather than maltreatment. He called on the Christians and other Nigerians to live in peace and tolerate one another irrespective of their ethnic, religious and political affiliation. “As a clergyman, my role is to preach peace, unity and to advise my faithful and other Nigerians to live in peace, unity and to show love, care to one another. “To also shun negative tendencies at all times in order to inherit the kingdom of God and for better society,“ he added. The Superintendent of the Elementary Department, Mr Sylvester Patrick, said the department was determination to continue to organise programmes that would foster unity and peace among its members. He said that the children were to be trained to grow in love and in Christ Jesus considering the importance of peace to societal development. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that the children made beautiful song presentations; listened to the word of God and had bible quiz with prayers.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ==== Edited by Isaac Aregbesola