By Victor Okoye The Chartered Institute of Educational Practitioners UK (CIEPUK) on Saturday in Abuja said no fewer than 10,000 talented youths would be discovered at its grassroots talent hunt in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the show has been scheduled to hold in July in Abuja. Prof. Marcel Ezenwoye, the President CIEPUK, told newsmen at a news conference in Abuja that the CIEPUK talent hunt was a project designed to empower African youths gifted and talented in various entertainment sectors. Ezenwoye explained that the show was primarily geared towards the discovery of hidden talents yet to be empowered and give hope to the helpless. He said the show was therefore a platform and support system for such youths to actualise their dreams as well as achieve their goals. “CIEPUK talent hunt season 1 is targeted towards transformation of lives round the globe. We discover these wonderful talents and put them on the spot light for the world to see. “Not less than 10, 000 talented people are expected to be discovered and winners who emerge will be empowered with prizes and rewards. “These talents will be grouped into six different categories, spanning through various acts including singing, dancing, rapping, acting, comedy and other talents discoverable,” he said. He revealed that there were a lot of juicy prizes to be won at the end of the show with the overall winner smiling home with a mouth-watering sum of ₦1m, including an album recording deal and a label to work with. He said that prizes for both the first and second runner up positions were ₦700,000 and ₦300,000, with an album recording deal as well. He stressed that there would be other consolation prizes to be won in the various categories, adding that all the contestants would be under the mentorship and tutolage of seasoned nollywood actors and movie directors. “In addition, contestants stand a chance to premiere their album in our prestigious recording studio in Egypt. “There will also be an automatic membership award of CIEPUK Professional Certificate for all contestants. “All interested persons are invited to click on the link below and register as the portal is already open and will run until June 15 when auditions are expected to begin.” “Encourage that child you notice that has some talent to register and contest. He or she may be on their way to stardom.” (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) =============== Edited by Idris Abdulrahman