By Thompson Yamput The Kogi Enterprise Develoment Agency (KEDA), says KG-CARES aims at boosting entrepreneurship and the economy of the state and the nation as a whole. KG-CARES is the Kogi COVID-19 Action Recovery and Economic Stimulus. KEDA Managing Director, Hajiya Rekiya Onaivo, made the clarification in a Statement by the Agency’s image maker, Ms Yemi Balogun in Lokoja. The MD expressed gladness and satisfaction with the flag-off and zonal sensitisation of Kogi- CARES across the state. Onaivo described the Result Area 3 zonal sensitisation, which began on May 9 to May 12 across the three senatorial districts, as “apt and very successful”. She said the zonal sensitization took place in Anyigba, Kabba and Okene, with relevant stakeholders fully represented. “KEDA is very satisfied that the sensitisation created massive awareness about the KG-CARES project and intimated the business communities about the processes and criteria for participation. “KG-CARES Result Area 3 is a state-level intervention that seeks to mitigate the local effects of the COVID-19 pandemic in Kogi by supporting the recovery of local economic activities among Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs). “We are equally happy that the sensitisation was declared opened by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs. Folashade Ayoade, represented by her Senior Special Adviser on Administrative Matters, Mr Ephraim Amurawiaye, ” she said. KEDA boss explained that the aim of the sensitisation was to bring state-wide awareness of the World Bank programme that would help Micro and Small Businesses stay in business. She acknowleged the support of Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Mr Olofu Yunusa-Gabriel, for being part of the programme held at Kabba. According to her, the commissioner’s encomiums in the activities of KEDA had spurred the agency to do more for Kogi, for the desired growth and development. According to her, Yunusa-Gabriel’s reiteration of the state government’s commitment to ensure that businesses that were adversely affected by COVID-19 pandemic were resuscitated, was a stimulus to the agency. The MD also thanked the State Cares Coordinating Unit and the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Mr Ezekiel Shaibu, for their support to the success of the programme. Onaivo, however, called on women, youths and People Living with Disabilities (PWD), to take advantage of the opportunity and access the grants. She explained that beneficiaries would be verified by independent agents to ascertain whether they were qualified. The KEDA boss advised prospective beneficiaries to ensure that authentic information were provided to the agency, to avoid being disqualified from the KG-CARES project. “Interested individuals and participants should be wary of all forms of fraudulent activities and report such to KEDA. “KEDA will not demand any form of payment to register beneficiaries,” she warned. High point of the event was the handing over of the Greivance Boxes to the vice chairpersons of the 21 local government areas for grievance redress purposes. “Prospective beneficiaries are highly encouraged to drop their complaints and grievances, as this will be handled appropriately.” She also thanked the traditional rulers who graced the occasions and their fatherly advice to propel managers to ensure that the funds were properly managed. Amongst them are the Ohi of Okene, Alhaji Isah Mamman, the Obaro of Kabba, Oba Solomon Owoniyi Owoyomade1, Ogohi Onu Anyigba, Alhaji Abu Shaibu Okolo, and Ohi of Okengwen, Obobayi Ihima, Prince Fuad Ado-Ibrahim. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) Edited by Idris Abdulrahman