By Aderogba George AISH Initiative, an NGO has canvassed for proper awareness and sensitisation of people on laws regulating Sexual and Gender Based Violence (SGBV). The Deputy Director of the organisation, Mr Amuche Okoro, made the call in Abuja at a one-day sensitisation programme in Karu community in the FCT to stop SGBV in the country. Okoro said that lack of awareness on the provisions of laws such as Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act 2015 and the Child Rights Act, 2003 at the grassroots brought about increase in SGBV cases. He said that the laws were there to punish offenders but expressed concern that a lot was yet to be done in terms of making people, especially those at the grassroots with rampant cases know the provision of the laws. Okoro called on the authorities in charge of sensitisation of the laws such as the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) and the National Orientation Agency (NOA) to do more to make people aware of the laws. Similarly, the Executive Director of the NGO, Mrs Helen Nwoko said SGBV eradication in Nigeria had been hindered due to interplay of many legal factors including government alleged inability to adopt some international conventions on human rights. Nwoko said that victims still encountered enormous difficulties as a result of unavailability of rehabilitation centres, poor funding and under staff. According to her, women and girls face difficulties in accessing the centres due to fear of stigmatization and discrimination. Nwoko said that AISH Initiative had taken it upon itself to advance the rights of children, women and men, He said that one of the top priorities of the organisation was the integration of women and gender perspectives into all its policies, programmes and activities. “We believe that the rate of GBV can be reduced in the community through increased awareness in the behaviours, beliefs, and actions that encourage these terrible actions, strengthen the capacity of community members to prevent and respond to GBV issues. “This requires our collective effort in the Karu community,’’ she said. The representative of the Ministry of Women Affairs, Mr Nwabueze Emeka, the Principal Community Development Officer, called on every home to guide against child abuse, saying it also promotes SGBV in the society. He said that abuse, criticism and threat expose a child to a lot of ills, and called on families to exercise caution while handling a child. Emeka also called on families not to expose their children and wards to sexual abuse, which usually gives rise to depression and violence. Mrs Comfort Ogunmola, the Acting Director, NOA FCT Directorate, said that the agency had been doing a lot within its mandate of orientating the populace and would continue in that direction. She said that the agency had collaborated with other partners in sensitising and orientating Nigerians on so many societal issues. Ogunmola called for all hands to be on deck to to win the war against SGBV. The Sakaruyi of Karu, Dr Emmanuel Yepwi, represented by a District Head Chief, Mr Atnadu Shanyibwa, said that a lot of SGBV cases were reported at the palace, adding that they were doing their best to handle the cases. According to him, any SGBV case that is beyond the administration of the palace, is referred to the police. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ================ Edited by Chidi Opara/Grace Yussuf