By Okon Okon The Federal Government has pledged to provide work tools and resources for housing loans to 118 graduates of ‘Leadership Enhancement and Development Programme (Lead-P). The Head of the Service of the Federation (HOCSF), Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan, made the pledge at the graduation ceremony of the beneficiaries on Tuesday in Abuja. Yemi-Esan said the gesture was Federal Government’s determination to enhance the working conditions of civil servants, to fulfill its mandate on strenthening the nation’s public service. The HoS said the Lead-P training had a goal of cultivating 100 officers on salary Grade Levels 10 to 14 annually, meant to produce the next generation of leaders in the Federal Civil Service. According to her, the programme is the key component of the first pillar of the Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan (FCSSIP) 2021 to 2025, The plan is for capacity building and talent management of public servants to improve the nation’s civil service. “This priority of this initiative is geared towards addressing the need to strengthen and reinvigorate the civil service workforce through well structured and sustainable capacity building programmes. ” It is therefore, quite elating to observe that today’s graduation ceremony is symbolic of the progress recorded towards the full implementation of that aspect of the FCSSIP, ” she said. She, however, announced the Federal Government’s determination to enhance the working conditions of the graduands with the provision of work tools, including laptops and resources for their housing loans. “I will like to use this opportunity to inform you that the office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation has started arrangement to ensure that each one and eighteen of you get laptops to enhance your work. “Also, I will like to inform you that the Federal Government Staff Housing Loan Board has set resources to grant immediate housing loan to all of you, ” the HoS said. Also, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha, commended Yemi-Esan for her laudable initiative, saying leadership development for effective succession planning had, over time, remained the bane of the civil service. According to Mustapha, this underscores the need to equip officers appropriately with such laudable programmes, because the Public Service of any nation, in all its bureaucratic complexity, is the engine of government. “This demonstrates the fact that public servants must have the capacity to support fast-moving political agendas, manage and transform vast public organisations, motivate and inspire their workforce and be trusted partners to citizens.” According to him, the reform in the nation’s civil service has made a remarkable impact, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic period. “Globally, we saw how effective public service leaders rose to the challenge of COVID-19, leveraging new technologies and managing their workforces in innovative ways to protect their well being, while maintaining and boosting the delivery of essential services. “Daunting though it may have been, there is no gainsaying the fact that the world, including Nigeria has risen to the challenge, ” SGF remarked. The initiative is part of the Federal Government’s mandate and, most importantly, in line with its vision of leading a world-class service to accelerate national development through public service. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) MZM/IA Edited by Idris Abdulrahman