By Busayo Onijala Mr Wale Ojetimi, a retired Deputy-Editor-in-Chief of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Sunday launched Amatropics, a multimedia news platform.   Speaking at the launch in Lagos, Ojetimi said  Amatropics was coined from the combination of ‘ama’ ,a Swahili word meaning people, and ‘tropics’, which  means people of the tropics or African people.   He said the integrated multimedia news organisation would work differently by not just providing news but also “the news behind the news.”   “We will be working on the hows and whys of news happenings.   “The news market in Nigeria has transformed over the last couple of years and you find that many newspapers are going into extinction.   “The market has moved majorly from print to online but there is still a space at the top for people who know their onions. This space is what we are aiming for,” he said.   The retired DEIC added that the platform would focus on South African and Nigerian news because both countries were the powerhouses of Africa.   “We will disseminate authentic Nigerian news for South Africans and vice-versa.   “More importantly, we will make sure we independently verify news and make sure every piece of information is thoroughly checked before being published,” Ojetimi said.   In his speech, Prof. Banji Akintoye, a professor of History,said it was not a mistake that the Yoruba nation was among the strong nations of Black Africa.   Akintoye, represented by Prof. Babafemi Badejo of Chrisland University, said his focus was on Yorubas because of the sizeable number of Yoruba elite, literati, intelligentsia and captains of enterprise, present at the launch.   According to him, yoruba as a people and as individuals are being powerfully prompted from deep inside their souls  to respond to the divine urge for change.   He charged citizens to lend their voices to initiatives that would bring positive change and development to the country.   “We are being told to perceive the realities of our lives in Nigeria in their true colour and their true dimensions, and to arise to respond to them as we truly ought to respond.   “The time for everyone of us to choose to do the right thing is now,” he said.   NAN Head of Lagos Operations, Mr Ephraims Sheyin, said he was proud to be a part of Ojetimi’s network of friends.   He hailed the hardwork of the celebrator over the years, adding that he would be rewarded greatly as a result of his good works.   Sheyin expressed confidence in Ojetimi’s ability to make Amatropics a successful media organisation.   The launch, which coincided with his 60th birthday celebration had in attendance Adeleye Ajayi, Chairman, Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Lagos council, members of Ede Unique Club and other dignitaries. (NAN) Edited by AbdulFatai Beki/Buhari Bolaji