The African Union Commission (AUC) in partnership with the International Committee of All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA), has unveiled the calendar of events for the 2022  edition of the awards ceremony. Mrs Cisse Mohamed, AUC, Director for Social Development, Culture and Sports Health, Humanitarian Affairs and Social Development, disclosed this in a statement on Thursday in Lagos. She said that the unveiling event took place at a world press conference on Wednesday, at the AU Headquarters in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. According to her, media personnel and the general public were shown the line-up of preceding events before the main award ceremony starts from Nov.3 to Nov.6. “Africa remains resilient and progressive in everything, and this is why our entertainment sector continues to make such huge leaps globally. “And at the forefront of this lies our resolve to unite the continent through entertainment. “AFRIMA is committed to this mission, upholding this tradition of celebrating the scintillating musical culture of Africa by featuring exhilarating Pan-Africa events throughout the year. “We are looking forward to celebrating the richness of the African continent alongside AFRIMA in November,” she said. Mohamed said that importantly, the calendar for the year begins with the entries of submission which starts May 30 and closes on Aug. 5. She noted that the submissions could be done on behalf of the talents across the continent and in the diaspora, by their representatives (talent managers, record company personnel and  producers, among others.) “The year-in-review for the entries is from August 20, 2021 to August 5, 2022, implying that only entries created during that period will be valid. “Shortly after the submission of entries is the pre-screening process, which is to be held between 5th and 8th August, 2022. “During this process, entries will be vetted by a special committee at the International Secretariat of AFRIMA and categorised in accordance with AFRIMA entry submission guidelines. “The main screening process, which is tagged as the adjudication process, will follow immediately from August 9 to 16, 2022. “This process is undertaken by an International Jury of AFRIMA comprising a 13-man panel of experienced African music experts and practitioners drawn from the five regions of Africa and in the diaspora,” she said. According to her, a world media announcement  will take place on Aug. 17, to publicly unveil the nominees. She said that by Aug. 24, the AFRIMA Academy as well as music fans and followers around the globe would begin to participate in the public voting process. She explained that this would be conducted on AFRIMA’s website, during which the nominees will receive votes that could lead them to emerging winners in the various categories of the awards. “The voting process, which closes 24 hours before the awards ceremony, will  be monitored and audited by a reputable international auditing firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers. “Finally, the awards ceremony will be held from Thursday, November 3 to Saturday, November 6, 2022. “It will feature a 3-day fiesta of music, glitz, and glamour, the event will commence with the welcome soiree, followed by the AFRIMA Music Village, the host city tour, African Music Business Summit, and the exclusive nominees’ party and concluded with the live awards ceremony broadcast to over 84 countries around the world. “African music lovers can take part in the events on social media, live stream on the AFRIMA website at www.afrima.org and visit the social media platforms (Instagram – Afrima.official/ Twitter – Afrimaofficial). “They can watch the event coverage by tuning in to their local and cable TV providers,” she said. (NAN) (nannews.ng) PTB/FAA ======== Edited by Folasade Adeniran