By Philomina Attah The Kegites Club International, Abuja Council of Fellowsis (ACOF) Chapter, on Sunday offered free medical outreach to inmates at the Kuje Correctional Service to commemorate the 2022 Workers’ Day Celebration. The medical intervention included: screening and treatment for malaria and typhoid fevers, peptic ulcer, urinary tract infection, blood pressure, Hepatitis B, among others. The Chairman of the club, John Bosco, said the free medical outreach was not only aimed at commemorating the day for FCT workers but to improve the health condition of the inmates. Bosco said the ACOF also intended to change the narrative of the club as a social gathering that only seats to take palm wine and merry to one that impacts meaningfully the society. According to him, ACOF intends to make the medical outreach an annual or quarterly affair, adding that the intervention covers prison inmates, the vulnerable and less-privileged in the society. One of the inmates receiving free treatment by the group’s doctor Dr Ikechukwu Dimanoruo, the ACOF Treasurer, said the gesture was borne out of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CRS) of the council to assist the inmates and provide them succour through the provision of medical services. “We decided to pay a visit to Kuje Prison to seek medical complaints of the inmates and try as much to offer treatments and solutions that will help them while they stay in prison. “We are here for full restoration of the inmates; we carried out diagnoses on them and prescribed drugs to restore their health. “The idea is to improve the health condition of all the inmates serving in the prisons and to make sure they are in good condition,” he said. Andrew Soludo, on his part said that it was imperative for the inmates to be tested first to know their ailments before administering appropriate medications. Soludo said the council also provided legal support and advice to inmates, especially those awaiting trial, wrongfully incarcerated or people who cannot afford legal representation. He said that every Nigerian has the right to life and liberty, adding that the council, as part of its “Prison Reform Initiative” had focused on decongesting prisons in the country. The second in command, Kuje Correctional Service, Mr Sule Abuh, expressed his gratitude to the group for their contribution towards ensuring that the inmates are in good health condition. Mr Nelson Adoga, who spoke on behalf of other inmates expressed gratitude to the council for its medical intervention and appealed to other well-meaning Nigerians to do same. Adoga said it would go a long way in improving their well-being and called on other organisations to come to their aid by paying some of the fines imposed on the inmates to regain freedom. Highlight of the medical outreach was payment of fines for four inmates who were immediately released.  (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)