By Jacinta Nwachukwu The Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, has trained no fewer than 60 management staff under the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP), to enhance performance. The Minister, Hajia Sadiya Umar-Farouq, while briefing newsmen at the three days capacity building workshop for the managers in Abuja on Thursday, said that the aim of the training was to ensure effective service delivery. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme of the training is “Driving Organisational Change for Impactful Results”. Umar-Farouq, represented by NSIP National Coordinator, Dr Umar Bindir, urged participants to do better in their respective roles and cooperate with one another for further improvements. “This training aims to enhance capacity for effective service delivery and performance. “It will help to build leadership capacity toward initiation and actualisation of performance driven change in organisations. “It will also help to develop strategic competencies to manage emerging challenges in the course of organisation’s transition,” she said. The minister appreciated President Muhammadu Buhari for creating the platform through which many Nigerians were empowered. In her remarks, the Lead Facilitator, Prof. Muniat Yusuf-Habeeb, called for the sustenance of the training because the programme had been impactful. According to her, sustainability is key, the zeal of continuous training should be sustained and this will guarantee continuous improvement in the programme. She further said that the drivers of the programme should have the ability to enlighten Nigerians more on the programme for better understanding and participation. Also speaking, Mrs Halima Oyelode, on behalf of the participants appreciated the management of the ministry for the opportunity to build on their capacity. Oyelode, the Special Assistant to the Minister on Strategic Communications described the training as a rewarding experience and interactive. “We have learnt a lot and are eager to put what we have learnt into practice. “I want to say a big thank you to the management for putting this training together for staff, I always believe that the most appreciable asset of any organisation is its human resource. “So, when you set out to develop the human resource, you are developing and strengthening the programme,”she said.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ============ Edited by Chinyere Bassey/Isaac Aregbesola