(3rd R) Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman/CEO of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) Mr Madu Hamman, the MD Federal Mortgage Bank (FMBN) (2nd R) and other directors of the bank   By Maureen Okon The Nigerian in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) on Tuesday partnered with the Federal Mortgage Bank (FMBN) to launch Diaspora housing scheme. This was made known during a courtesy visit paid by the Chairman of NiDCOM Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, to FMBN’s Managing Director, Mr Madu Hamman in his office in Abuja. Dabiri-Erewa announced that NiDCOM had reached its final preparatory stage of the housing scheme programme for the Nigerians in the Diaspora to benefit from. She added that the partnership with the FMBN would help in cutting off any middleman that would pose any challenge to Nigerians Diaspora that wish to own a home in Nigeria. Also, she said that the housing scheme would be beneficiary for Nigerians at home and in the Diaspora. She pointed out that the Nigerians Diaspora were rated the highest in remittances to their home country, adding that no country could stand alone without its Diaspora. “We have created the housing scheme platform where we now have about 1,700 interested diaspora wanting to enroll . “So, where we are now is to commence the launch which was delay by the handing over of the new Management team of the FMBN in March . She also warned Nigerians In the Diaspora not to fall victim of fraudsters, urging them to always go through the official platform and address of the scheme: https://nidcom.gov.ng/diaspora-housing-platform/. Speaking also, the MD of FMBN Mr Hamman, apologised for the delay of the launch, saying that it was due to the change in leadership at the bank. Hamman gave assurance that a date would be fixed for the launch before the end of May, noting that the process was already at its final stage. He added that the Diaspora were an integral component for any country’s development because of their skills, expertise and resources to invest in their homeland. “This platform will be of immense value to Nigerians both home and in the Diaspora. Before the end of May we will have a date for the launch. “The committees set for the arrangement will begin work to expedite the lunch and then the venue and other logistics with the approval will be communicated at the end of the month,” he said.(NAN) ======== Edited by Isaac Aregbesola