(from right)D-G NAPTIN, Mr Ahmed Nagode;  Director, Management Systems Certification,SON, Mr Felix Nyado; and former D-G NAPTIN, Reuben Okeke, at the official presentation of the Quality Management Systems ISO 9001 :2015, in Abuja on Tuesday   By Constance Athekame The National Power Training Institute (NAPTIN) has been presented with the Quality Management System ISO 9001:2015 Certificate by the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON). The Director-General of NAPTIN, Mr Ahmed Nagode, while receiving the Certificate on Tuesday in Abuja, said the Quality Management System ISO 9001:2015 “is a process development that strengthens business performance’’. Nagode said that ISO 9001:2015 certification would create efficiency in work, guarantee world-class corporate governance and build enduring customer satisfaction. According to him, this is the ultimate goal of any product development organization, this development will enhance NAPTIN brand, and product offerings will guarantee quality assurance and meet standards of regulatory requirements. “This laudable feat, though long overdue couldn’t have come at a better time when NAPTIN is the cynosure of all eyes by its status of being a” Centre of Excellence in power training. “Its training also covers West Africa Sub-Region under West African Power Pool and also the Association of Power Utilities of Africa under the African Network Centres of Excellence in Electricity (ANCEE) project. “This has made NAPTIN a global player in providing an efficient and effective workforce beyond the shores of Nigeria. Through this development, NAPTIN is living its dream as espoused in its corporate vision statement of being “a Centre of Excellence,’’ he said. Nagode said that the recognition and the award came after two years of long and arduous journey of hard work, tenacity, resilience and utmost commitment by all staff of NAPTIN. According to him, as NAPTIN basks in the glory of the ISO certification, the institute should come to terms with the reality that the work is not finished. “Our efforts at upholding and sustaining the status will be the real legacy we can all bequeath to future generations to come,’’ he said. The Minister of Power, Mr Abubakar Aliyu, while commending NAPTIN for the feat, said that the certification was in line with the general reforms that were being carried out by the Federal Government. Aliyu, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Power, Mr Nebolisa Anako, said that every step was being taken toward performance management and digitisation of administrative content and standard operating procedure in service. “Excellence is something I ask other agencies of government to strive towards. “NAPTIN as an institution in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) is key because it is where we train the talents to bring the system to standard. “As we need competently trained personnel in all aspects to move the power industry forward and the ministry of power is happy with NAPTIN for achieving this.’’ The Director-General of SON, Malam Farouk Salim said that ISO 9001: 2015 quality management system approach now provides NAPTIN with a robust, globally recognised and acceptable solution to address challenges with managing quality. Salim, represented by Mr Felix Nyado, the Director, Management Systems Certification, SON said that the certification would also provide the institute solution to deliver an excellent customer experience. According to him, implementing the ISO 9001:  2015 standard in your organisation is a demonstration of your top management’s acceptance of international best practice of doing business and getting it right the first time and always. “Our advice to you today is to keep the system healthy and up to date to reap the benefits of ISO approach to management. “The system having been certified has been placed under annual surveillance audits to ensure continuing suitability and effectiveness in the course of the audit exercises, “Where non-conformance is observed and is effectively corrected within the specified time frame, the system will retain their certificate. “However, the certificate will be withdrawn if the structure in place for certification breaks down and corrective action is not taken on observed non-conformance,’’ he said. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)   ======== Edited by Ese E. Eniola Williams