By Olayinka Owolewa Some stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara have said that Mr Kayode Bankole remained the choice of the party as the House of Reps flag-bearer for their constituency. The stakeholders from Ekiti, Irepodun, Isin and Oke-ero Federal Constituency said this on Wednesday in Illoffa. Chairman of wards chairmen in Oke-Ero Local Government Area, Olusegun Olukayode, who spoke on behalf of others chairmen, said that it was their turn to produce the next House of Reps member. Olukayode said that since the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the constituency felt the need to address the marginalisation of the people and produced its House of Reps candidate from the LGA, the APC should follow suit. The stakeholders unanimously drum support for the candidacy of Bankole ahead of the party’s primaries slated for May 27, in Omu-Aran, headquarters of Irepodun Local Government Area. They noted that out of the four LGAs in the constituency, Ekiti, Irepodun and Isin had produced House of Reps member except Oke-Ero, adding that it was high time the marginalisation was addressed. The party stakeholders through their leader said that Bankole remained the candidate to beat in the forthcoming primaries, adding that he must be given the privileged to emerge. They stated that the aspirant had been a committed and loyal party member who contributed enormously to the growth and development of the APC. The stakeholders said from their findings and having spoken with some critical party faithful, Bankole remained the choice of the party, adding that he must be supported to emerge at the primaries. They noted that most of the aspirants were new to the party and should be allowed to earn the trust of the party before entrusting them with such an office. The stakeholders also called on Gov AbdulRasaq AbdulRahman to ensure that Bankole from Oke-Ero who has been adopted as their consensus candidate emerged victorious. They also called on the Deputy Governor, Mr Kayode Alabi, the APC Chairman, Prince Sunday Fagbemi and other party leadership to ensure that the injustice in the Federal Constituency was corrected. This according to them is by ensuring that Bankole emerged as the candidate for the House of Reps on the platform of APC.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng)   ========= Edited by Isaac Aregbesola