Safety sensitisation programme at IMG High School, Apata, Ibadan.   By Ibukun Emiola Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC), on Wednesday, urged students to be safety-conscious and handle electrical appliances with care, to avoid electric shock and electrocution. Chief Operating Officer (COO) of IBEDC, Mr John Ayodele, said this at a safety sensitisation programme, held at IMG High School, Apata, Ibadan. Ayodele, who was represented by the Head, Health, Safety and Environment, IBEDC, Mr Biodun Dirisu, said that the sensitisation was aimed at celebrating the Nigerian child, as part of activities to mark the 2022 International Children’s Day. He said that the company, by visiting several public schools within its network, would succeed in creating awareness on electricity safety. Ayodele added that the visit also coincided with the company’s safety sensitisation activities to commemorate the just-concluded World Day for Safety and Health at Work. “The need to educate children on imbibing positive health and safety culture should not be taken for granted. “Cultivating the lessons on how to maintain safety around electricity early will not only save their lives, but it will also forestall life-long injuries. “We are embarking on these sensitisation visits to some public schools across our franchise to equip children with the safety skills that will change their orientation about electricity safety and make them act proactively, as prevention is better than cure,” he said. According to him, IBEDC, as a socially-responsible corporate entity, with education at the core of its corporate social responsibility (CRS) thrust, is committed to upholding global safety standards as well as sustaining the health and safety culture. “This company has built this over the years through continuous internal endeavours and collaborations with external safety agencies. “It is against this backdrop that we organise various programmes, aimed at institutionalising safety culture within our business and the people we serve. “Some of the programmes include: essay competitions, first responder trainings, technical workshops and colloquiums and courtesy visits to critical stakeholders, among others. “All these are meant to commemorate the 2022 World Day for Safety and Health at Work and to further position us for the safety challenges and best practices of the 21st century,” he said. While sensitising the students, Dirisu also urged them not to touch electrical wire or appliances with wet hands. “Don’t stay under the tree whenever it is raining because of thunderstorms, as trees are conductors. “Don’t fix any bad socket or fuse in your house. Report all electrical faults to your parents. “Tell your parents to install ‘earthing’ in the house, as it is a form of security that doesn’t allow electricity to shock people. “Whenever it is raining, don’t walk under high tension wire so that if a line should cut, it won’t fall on you. Do not take shelter under a tree that tension wire passes over,” he said. The IBEDC Business Manager Apata, Ibadan, Mr, Ifeayin Ekeji, counselled the students on career development, urging them to shun examination malpractices, focus on their studies and stay away from social vices. Some of the students expressed appreciation to IBEDC for equipping them with safety tips, aimed at reducing electrical mishap in the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event featured inauguration of Health and Safety Club and donation of school materials and tuition fees to some indigent students. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng) ============= Edited by Chidinma Agu and ‘Wale Sadeeq