By Sumaila Ogbaje   The family of the late Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, is set to inaugurate General Ibrahim Attahiru Foundation (GIAF) to mark his one-year memorial on Saturday in Abuja. Attahiru died alongside 10 other military officers and men on board the ill-fated NAF Aircraft that crashed in Kaduna on May 21, 2021. The Programme Coordinator of GIAF, Dr Titus Orngu, said this in a statement on Friday in Abuja. Orngu said that Emir of Bichi, Kano Emirate, Alhaji Nasir Ado Bayero, Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka and leading Environmentalist Dr Newton Jibunoh were some of the prominent citizens expected at the event. He said that Soyinka would deliver a short tribute with the title: “To All, who give their All for All.” Orngu, said that top serving and retired military officers, captains of industry, members of the diplomatic corps, political leaders, members of the academia and associates of the late General were also expected. According to him, apart from the launch of GIAF, there will be the premiere of “Ibrahim Attahiru, a Soldier’s Soldier,” a documentary on life and times of the late Army chief, produced and directed by Adeola Osunkojo. “The foundation will also present Attahiru’s posthumous biography, “The man, the soldier, the patriot, biography of Lt Gen Ibrahim, written by Niran Adedokun, at the event. “It is published by Cable Books, an arm of Cable Newspapers Limited,” he said. Orngu said that the documentary and biography were in celebration of the exemplary life of the late military officer and an opportunity to introduce the ideals that guided his life to Nigerians, “especially when the country needs the virtues of patriotism, selflessness and fellow feeling”. He said that GIAF intended to advance strategic leadership on the African continent with core values centred on the public good, integrity and accountability. He added that priority areas would include strategic leadership; peacebuilding, human, environmental and social development as well as mental health and psycho-social support; research and defence advocacy. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)