By Silas Nwoha Socio-economic activities have returned in full swing in Cairo, after the deadly coronavirus (COVID-19) experience that killed up to 24,690 people in the North African country, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO). The outbreak of COVID-19 dealt a huge blow to many African economies, including Egypt which is currently top-ranking in Africa. However, South Africa occupies the premier position in the number of COVID-19 cases in the continent with some 3,677.686 cases as of last March, based on a WHO ranking. It is followed by Morocco with 1,161,290 cases, with Egypt, Africa’s culture and learning capital coming a distant fifth with 486,381 cases. Currently, Egypt appears to have regained its groove with people going about their daily activities – majority discarding face masks completely. Night life has also returned in the ancient capital, with live shows on boat rides on the River Nile, the life wire of various activities in Egypt. A correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), who participated in a boat cruise on the Nile reports that it was fun and fun fare with young Egyptians dancing to ancient and modern Arab tunes to the delight of everyone on the ride. “This is our way of life before COVID-19 destroyed everything but we have returned to our cherished ways,’’ a middle-aged man, who gave his name as Abdul Tareek, told NAN through an interpreter. Tareek recalled the difficult situation in Cairo at the peak of the coronavirus crisis, saying he hoped the worst was over for Egypt and other countries. Egypt, which currently has a booming economy received a huge blow from COVID-19 – like other countries around the world — since the outbreak of the pandemic. But Egypt has fully overcome the challenges posed by the disease with people of all ages going about their daily chores day and night. African countries have so far reported a total of 254,000 deaths from COVID-19 with a total of 12,059,000 infections, according to records. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) ====== (Edited by Emmanuel Yashim)