By Emmanuel Oloniruha A group of Nigerians living abroad under the aegis of the Diaspora Leadership Alliance, says it is committed to putting Nigeria in the fast lane of development to be at par with some of the advanced nations of the World. The group stated this in a communique issued after its virtual meeting anchored from the United States of America, signed by its convener, Tex Wariboko and spokesperson, Chuks Eleonu, and made available to newsmen in Abuja on Monday. The group said its members in over 20 countries including U.S., Canada, The United Kingdom, China, Mexico, The Netherlands, South Africa and Costa Rica, were not just concerned about wellbeing but also the politics and economy of Nigeria. The group said that as a body with strong support for the Minister of Transportation and Aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, Rotimi Amaechi 2023 presidential ambition, they believe in the need to engage of Nigerians in diaspora on development agenda. The group, who described Amaechi as the most qualified aspirant, said it was imperative to discuss with him on leveraging the potentials and resources of diaspora Nigerians for rapid transformation of Nigeria when elected Nigeria president in 2023. It added that such a productive population whose annual remittances impacts significantly on Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), could not be left behind in the scheme of things back home. “Nigeria has a productive population abroad as evidenced in the volume of cash inflows to family, friends and even business transactions by Citizens abroad. “Figures obtained from the World Bank shows that Nigerians in diaspora remitted a whooping $65.34bn in three years (2018-2021) to boost economic activities in the country. “These contributions over the years are huge and no serious Government should take its resourcefulness of its citizens living abroad for granted. “Interestingly, we are not just about making a good living for ourselves and families but we are also very much concerned about the politics and economy of Nigeria. “This is with a view to seeing how we can also be part of the engineering process of putting Nigeria in the fast lane of development to be at par with some of the advanced nations of the World. “This is why we want Rotimi Amaechi to engage with us because we strongly believe that based on his pedigree and track record in governance since 1992. “He is the only presidential hopeful who can take advantage of the huge potential of the Nigerians Diaspora population to uplift Nigeria and Nigerians,” the group said.(NAN)(www.nannews.ng) OBE/IAA ==== Edited by Isaac Aregbesola