By Stephen Adeleye Some youths in the APC Kogi Central have inaugurated a campaign council to canvass support for Kogi Commissioner for Works, Abubakar Ohere’s ambition for Senate in 2023 General Elections. The Youths under the aegis of Ohere Youth and Students Campaign Network (OYSCN), formally inaugurated its Central Committee and Local Government Coordinators on Wednesday in Okene, Okene Local Government Area (LGA) of Kogi In his inaugural speech, the Director General of OYSCN, Omeiza Audu (Troy), said the group comprised 17 different interest groups in APC across the five local government areas of Kogi Central Senatorial District. According to him, their meeting in Okene was to discuss about how to unite and deliver Ohere, as the next senator to represent the good people of the district in the 2023 General Elections. ”The local government coordinators were drawn from the five  local government areas of Kogi Central, and their excos selected from eleven wards from each of the local government areas. ”The groups have resolved to work in harmony and canvass for votes for Engr. Ohere’s emergence as the APC’s senatorial candidate for Kogi Central in the forthcoming party primaries,” he said. He, therefore, admonished all members to work together in unison towards ensuring that the aspirant, Ohere, is propelled by the group to attain his enviable height. He further urged them to make sure they work hard to see to his emergence as the APC flag bearer for Kogi Central, and as member of the next Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Other excos include Mohammed Eneji, the General Secretary; Abdulsalam Salis (Adavi), PRO; Godwin Alao (Ogori/Magongo), Financial Secretary; Saidat Oziohu Jimoh (Okehi), Women Leader; and Victoria Daniel (Ajaokuta), Treasurer. Other members are Gomina Habib (Ajaokuta), Bilal Asuku (Okene), Isah Ozovehe Abdulbaki (Okehi), and Abdulrahman Abdulmumuni (Okehi). The local government coordinators are Ismail Mustapha and Ohida Otohinoyi Samson, Adavi LGA; Idris Abubakar  and Yakubu Ahmed, Ajaokuta. Others are Adesina Obas and Taye Akpata- Ogori/Magongo; Bashiru Umar and Victoria David- Okehi; and Abdulmumuni Amoka and Juliana Peter- Okene LGAs. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)