By Zainab Oyekan An Upper Area Court in Jos on Friday issued a warrant for the arrest of aMedical Doctor, Dr Machael Owoicho-Odeh, for failing to show. Owoicho-Odeh, a staff member of the Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) is being accused by Mr Maduabuchi Orji, Jos-based businessman of having an illicit affair with his wife. The Judge, Malam Lawan Suleiman, gave the order for the bench warrant, when the case was called for continuation of hearing but was told that the defendant the was again absent in court. “This Court can’t tolerate any form of disrespect to it not when a defendant deliberately refuses to show up and constantly absent to answer his case. “Consequently, I uphold the argument put up the Prosecution Counsel that the bail earlier granted the defendant be withdrawn and a bench warrant be issued for his arrest. “I hereby order that a bench warrant be issued against the defendant and for him to appear before this Court on the next adjourned date for continuation of hearing of this matter, ” the judge ordered. The prosecution counsel, Mrs Muleng Alex, Plateau Police Cammand Legal Officer, had on resumption of hearing of the matter, prayed the court to revoke of the doctor’s bail and a bench warrant for his arrest issued. “My Lord, this is because the defendant and his surety have deliberately refused to show up for the continuation of the case and the court should not allow them to hold us to ransom, ” Alex argued. Opposing the application, the Defence Counsel, Mr Joseph Danboyi, argued that his client was currently writing an examination and could not appear in court. But the trial judge dismissed Danboyi’s Preliminary Objection and went ahead to revoke the bail and issued a bench warrant against the medical doctor. The judge, however, adjourned the case until June 13 for continuation of hearing. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria on March 23, suspended Owoicho-Odeh, for six months for malpractice and infamous conduct. The five-member Medical and Dental Practitioners Disciplinary Tribunal announced the sanction on in Jos after the doctor’s trial. NAN reports that Owoicho-Odeh pleaded not guilty. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng) edited by Sadiya Hamza